TITLE:
Network apparatus and method for preview of music products and compilation of market data

TYPE:
US Patent

ABSTRACT:
A system for on-line user-interactive multimedia based point-of-preview. The system provides for a network web site and accompanying software and hardware for allowing users to access the web site over a network such as the internet via a computer. The user is uniquely identified to the web site server through an identification name or number. The hardware associated with the web site includes storage of discrete increments of pre-selected portions of music products for user selection and preview. After user selection, a programmable data processor selects the particular pre-recorded music product from data storage and then transmits that chosen music product over the network to the user for preview. Subscriber selection and profile data (i.e. demographic information) can optionally be collected and stored to develop market research data. Since the system provides for multiple embodiments, the system contemplates previewing of audio programs such as music on compact discs, video programs such as movies and text from books and other written documents. Furthermore, it is contemplated that the network web site can be accessed from a publicly accessible kiosk, available, e.g. at a retail store location, or from a desk top computer.

CLAIMS:
1. A method for enabling a remote user to preview a portion of a pre-recorded music product from a network web site containing pre-selected portions of different pre-recorded music products, using a computer, a computer display and a telecommunications link between the remote user's computer and the network web site, the method comprising the steps of:
a) using the remote user's computer to establish a telecommunications link to the network web site wherein the network web site comprises (i) a central host server coupled to a communications network for retrieving and transmitting the pre-selected portion of the pre-recorded music product upon request by a remote user and (ii) a central storage device for storing pre-selected portions of a plurality of different pre-recorded music products;
b) transmitting user identification data from the remote user's computer to the central host server thereby allowing the central host server to identify and track the user's progress through the network web site;
c) choosing at least one pre-selected portion of the pre-recorded music products from the central host server;
d) receiving the chosen pre-selected portion of the pre-recorded products; and
e) interactively previewing the received chosen pre-selected portion of the pre-recorded music product.
2. The method of claim 1 further comprising the step of rating the chosen pre-selected portion of the pre-recorded music products.
3. The method of claim 1 wherein the central memory device comprises a plurality of compact disc-read only memory (CD-ROMs).
4. The method of claim 1 wherein the central memory device comprises a RAID array drive.
5. A method for enabling a remote user to preview a portion of a pre-recorded music product from a network web site containing pre-selected portions of different pre-recorded music products, using a computer, a computer display and a telecommunications link between the remote user's computer and the network web site, the method comprising the steps of:
a) using the remote user's computer to establish a telecommunications link to the network web site wherein the network web site comprises (i) a central host server coupled to a communications network for retrieving and transmitting the pre-selected portion of the pre-recorded music product upon request by a remote user and (ii) a central storage device for storing pre-selected portions of a plurality of different pre-recorded music products;
b) transmitting user identification data from the remote user's computer to the central host server thereby allowing the central host server to identify and track the user's progress through the network web site;
c) choosing at least one pre-selected portion of the pre-recorded music products wherein the portion of the pre-recorded product is identified by a product code;
d) receiving the chosen pre-selected portion of the pre-recorded music products; and
e) interactively previewing the received chosen pre-selected portion of the pre-recorded music product.
6. A network web site for allowing a remote user to preview a pre-selected portion of a pre-recorded music product, using a computer, a computer display and a telecommunications link between the remote user's computer and the network web site, the network web site comprising:
a) a central host server coupled to a communications network for retrieving and transmitting the pre-selected portion of the pre-recorded music product upon request by the remote user;
b) a central storage device for storing pre-selected portions of a plurality of different pre-recorded music products, the central storage device coupled to the central host server;
c) identification (ID) means for recognizing a user ID which specifically identifies the user to the central host server; and
d) control means for providing the user with interactive control over the preview of the pre-selected portion of the pre-recorded music products.
7. The network web site of claim 6 wherein the portions of the plurality of different pre-selected pre-recorded music products are identified and called from the central storage device using unique product codes.
8. The network web site of claim 6 further comprising purchasing means for allowing the user to place an order for purchasing at least one music product.
9. The network web site of claim 6 further comprising a listing means for providing the user with dynamic lists of the pre-selected portions of the plurality of different pre-recorded music products that have been previewed the most.
10. The network web site of claim 6 further comprising a recording means for providing the user with a record of previous previews by the user.
11. The network web site of claim 6 further comprising a ratings means for prompting the user for a rating of a particular one of the pre-selected portions of the plurality of different pre-recorded music products and storing the user's rating.
12. The network web site of claim 11 further comprising a first market research means for correlating the user rating with the user ID, for compiling market research data.
13. The network web site of claim 6 further comprising a second market research means for correlating the user ID with all previews performed by the user, for compiling market research data.
14. A network web site for allowing a remote user to preview a pre-selected portion of a pre-recorded music product, using a computer, a computer display and a telecommunications link between the remote user's computer and the network web site, the network web site comprising:
a) a central host server coupled to a communications network for retrieving and transmitting the pre-selected portion of the pre-recorded music product upon request by a remote user;
b) a central storage device for storing pre-selected portions of a plurality of different pre-recorded music products, the central storage device coupled to the central host server;
c) identification (ID) means for recognizing a user ID which specifically identifies the user to the central host server;
d) control means for providing the user with interactive control over preview of the pre-selected portion of the pre-recorded music products; and
e) means coupled to the central host server for collecting demographic information regarding the user.
15. The network web site of claim 14 further comprising a ratings means for prompting the user for a user rating of a particular one of the pre-selected portions of the plurality of different pre-recorded music products and storing the rating.
16. The network web site of claim 15 further comprising first market research means for correlating the user rating with the user ID, for compiling market research data.
17. The network web site of claim 14 further comprising a second market research means for correlating the user ID with all previews performed by the user, for compiling market research data.
18. The network web site of claim 14 wherein the demographic information is selected from the group of information types consisting of age, sex, income, ethnicity, education level, marital status, hobbies, and occupation.