The appeal is against the decision of the examining division, announced in oral proceedings and posted on 6 December 2012, to refuse European patent application No. 04706992.7 on the grounds of lack of inventive step, having regard to the disclosure of D2: WO 02/36044, with respect to a main request and on the grounds of added matter (Article 123(2) EPC) with respect to eight auxiliary requests. A ninth and a tenth auxiliary requests filed during the oral proceedings were not admitted in the procedure under Rules 116(1) and 137(3) EPC. II. Notice of appeal was received on 7 February 2012 and the appeal fee was paid on the same day. The statement setting out the grounds of appeal was received on 12 April 2012. The appellant requested that the decision under appeal be set aside and that a patent be granted on the basis of a main request or any of first to eighth auxiliary requests filed with the statement setting out the grounds of appeal. The main request and the first to fifth auxiliary requests corresponded to the main request, the third auxiliary request, the fourth auxiliary request, the fifth auxiliary request, the ninth auxiliary request, and the tenth auxiliary request, respectively, on which the decision was based. Oral proceedings were requested should the main request not be allowed. Furthermore, the appellant commented on several procedural violations that he believed to have occurred during the examination procedure. No request for reimbursement of the appeal fee was made. III. A summons to oral proceedings scheduled for 27 January 2015 was issued on 22 September 2014. In an annex to this summons, the board gave its preliminary opinion on the appeal pursuant to Article 15(1) RPBA. An objection of lack of essential features under Article 84 EPC 1973 was raised with respect to all the requests on file. Objections of lack of inventive step under Article 56 EPC 1973 were raised with respect to all the requests on file, having regard to the disclosure of D2 or, alternatively of D1: US 2002/0038392, cited in examination. By way of illustration of the common general knowledge in the field of programming techniques, the board also cited: D4: S. Mitchell, "Designing Active Server Pages", Chapter 5 - Form Reuse, pp. 104-137, O'Reilly  D5: E. Herrmann, "Teach Yourself CGI Programming with Perl in a Week", pp. 91-118, 200-204, 363-375 and 450-455, Sams.net Publishing, 1996, ISBN: 1-57521-009-6. The board also expressed the preliminary opinion that, in its view, no substantial procedural violation had occurred in examination. IV. In a communication dated 22 December 2014, the board announced that the oral proceedings had been rescheduled for 21 July 2015. V. With a letter dated 19 June 2015, the appellant filed a main request and first to eighth auxiliary requests to replace the main request and first to eighth auxiliary requests previously on file. The claims of the main request and of the first and second auxiliary requests were identical to the claims of the previous sixth, seventh and eighth auxiliary requests, respectively. VI. Oral proceedings were held on 21 July 2015. The appellant's final requests were that the decision under appeal be set aside and that a patent be granted on the basis of the main request filed with letter dated 19 June 2015 or, in the alternative, on the basis of one of the first to eight auxiliary requests filed with the same letter. At the end of the oral proceedings, the decision of the board was announced. VII. Claim 1 of the main request reads as follows : "A system for comparing medical device settings to orders within a healthcare system, comprising: a medical device having a communication interface for transmitting data relating to operational parameters of the medical device; and a first computer having a communication interface for receiving the data relating to the medical device's operational parameters and for receiving data relating to a medication order, a processor for comparing at least one of the operational parameters sent from the medical device to at least a portion of the medication order, wherein if the processor is unable to conduct a comparison of the at least one operational parameter to the at least a portion of the medication order, the processor requests additional data and conducts a comparison, using the additional data, of the at least one operational parameter to the at least a portion of the medication order, and a transmitter in communication with the first computer for transmitting a comparison result signal of the comparison results to a remote computer." Claim 1 of the first auxiliary request reads as follows: "A system for comparing medical device settings to orders within a healthcare system comprising: a medical device having a communication interface for transmitting data relating to operational parameters of the medical device; and a first computer having a communication interface for receiving the data relating to the medical device's operational parameters and for receiving data relating to a medication order, a processor for comparing at least one of the operational parameters sent from the medical device to at least a portion of the medication order, and a transmitter in communication with the first computer for transmitting a comparison result signal of the comparison results to a remote computer, wherein if the comparison result signal indicates a mismatch between the medical device's operational parameters and the medication order, the remote computer displays (i) an option to operate the medical device using the medical device's operational parameters and (ii) an option to reprogram the medical device and conduct another comparison." Claim 1 of the second auxiliary request reads as follows: "A system for comparing medical device settings to orders within a healthcare system, comprising: a medical device having a communication interface for transmitting data relating to operational parameters of the medical device; and a first computer having a communication interface for receiving the data relating to the medical device's operational parameters and for receiving data relating to a medication order, a processor for comparing at least one of the operational parameters sent from the medical device to at least a portion of the medication order and a transmitter in communication with the first computer for transmitting a comparison result signal of the comparison results to a remote computer, wherein the processor checks whether the data relating to the medical device's operational parameters has been programmed into the medical device within a predetermined time, and if the data relating to the medical device's operational parameters has not been programmed into the medical device within the predetermined time, the processor requests programming of new data relating to the medical device's operational parameters before conducting the comparison." Claim 1 of the third auxiliary request, claim 1 of the fourth auxiliary request, and claim 1 of the fifth auxiliary request add to claim 1 of the main request, claim 1 of the first auxiliary request, and claim 1 of the second au Claim 1 of the sixth auxiliary request, claim 1 of the seventh auxiliary request, and claim 1 of the eight auxiliary request  add to claim 1 of the main request, claim 1 of the first auxiliary request, and claim 1 of the second auxiliary request, respectively, after the wording "data relating to operational parameters of the medical device" the feature "which data have been programmed into the device by a remote computer", and after the wording "comparing...to at least a portion of the medication order" the feature "upon request by the remote computer". Further, the wording "comparison results to the remote computer" replaces the wording "comparison results to a remote computer" in those claims.