--- PAGE 1 ---
10

15

20

25

30

35

MAIN REQUEST
CLAIMS

1. A system for comparing medical device settings to orders within a healthcare system,
comprising: ;
a medical device having a communication interface for transmitting data relating to
operational parameters of the medical device; and ,
a first computer having -
a communication interface for receiving the data relating to the medical
device's operational parameters and for receiving data relating to a medication
order, . .

. a processor for comparing at least one.of the operational parameters sent
from the medical device to at least a portion of the medication order, wherein if the
processor is unable to conduct a comparison of the at least one operational
parameter to the at least a portion of the medication order, the processor requests
additional data and conducts a comparison, using the additional data, of the at least
one operational parameter to the at least a portion of the medication order, and

a transmitter in communication with the first computer for transmitting a
comparison result signa! of the comparison results to a remote computer. |

2. The system of claim 1, wherein the first computer has: a memory for storing the data

_ relating to the medication order.

3. The system of claim 1, further comprising a wireless transmitter electrically connected
to the medical device to transmit a wireless signal containing the data relating to the
medical device's operational parameters to the first computer. .

4. The system of claim 1, further comprising a second computer that transmits the data
relating to the medication order to the first computer.

5. The system of claim 4, further comprising a secure communication line connecting the

first computer and the second computer.
6. The system of claim 1, wherein the remote computer is a wireless handheld device.

7. The system of claim 4, wherein the second computer transmits patient information data

to the first computer.

130

--- PAGE 2 ---
~ 15

20

25

30

35

MAIN REQUEST

8. The system of claim 7, wherein the patient information data comprises at least one of a

patient identification, a room assignment, a bed assignment, and an admission status.

9. The system of claim 1, wherein the operational parameters comprise settings manually

programmed into the medical device.

10. The system of claim 1, wherein the operational parameters are downloaded into the

medical device from the first computer or a second computer.
11. The system of claim 1, wherein the medical device is a pump controller.
12. The system of claim 11, wherein the pump controller controls an in-line MEMS device.

13. The system of claim 1, wherein data relating to operational parameters of the medical

device comprises programmed settings in the medical device.

14. The system of claim 1, wherein the data relating to the operational parameters of the
medical device comprises at-least a. programmed infusion rate, wherein the data relating
to the medication order comprises at least a prescribed infusion rate, and wherein: the

processor compares the programmed infusion rate to the prescribed infusion rate.

15. The system of claim 1, wherein the data relating to the operational parameters of the
medical. device comprises at least-a programmed infusion dose, wherein the data relating
to the medication order comprises at least a prescribed infusion dose, and wherein the
processor compares the programmed infusion dose to the prescribed infusion dose.

16. The system of claim 1, wherein the data relating to the operational parameters of the:
medical device comprises at least a programmed infusion volume, wherein the data
relating to the medication order comprises at least a prescribed infusion volume, and
wherein the processor compares the programmed infusion volume to the prescribed

infusion volume.
!

17. The system of claim 1, wherein the first computer further links a patient identifier and

a medication order identifier.

18. The system of claim 1, wherein the comparison result signal comprises a mismatch
comparison result, wherein the medical device transmits new data relating to the

131

--- PAGE 3 ---
MAIN REQUEST

operational parameters from the medical device to the first computer, wherein the
processor compares at least one of the operational parameters of the new data sent from
the medical device to at least a portion of the medication order, and wherein the transmitter
in communication with the first. computer transmits a new comparison result signal of the

comparison results to the remote computer.

132