This is an appeal of the applicant against the decision of the examining division to refuse European patent application No. 05 785 551.2. The reasons given for the refusal were that claim 1 of the main request as filed during the oral proceedings of 5 May 2010 was not clear (Article 84 EPC) and that the subject-matter of that claim did not involve an inventive step (Article 56 EPC). II. The following documents of the prior art cited during the procedure before the examining division are relevant for this decision: D2:  WO 2004/006271 A1 (reference being made in this decision to the translation EP 1 530 223 A1), and D4:  WO 95/02504 A1. III. In a communication accompanying a summons to oral proceedings, dated 8 May 2015, the board indicated its preliminary opinion that the subject-matter of claim 1 of the request as refused in the decision under appeal did not involve an inventive step, referring to D2, D4 and to excerpts from the Wikipedia pages concerning zinc oxide, silicon dioxide, aluminium oxide, silicon carbide and silicon nitride. Oral proceedings before the board took place on 3 August 2015. The appellant requested that the decision under appeal be set aside and that a patent be granted on the basis of claims 1 to 9 of the main request filed at the oral proceedings of 5 May 2010. IV. Claim 1 according to the appellant's sole request reads as follows: "An insulation tape that is surface coated with a high thermal conductivity layer, wherein said high thermal conductivity layer is coated on at least a top surface, a bottom surface, and a side surface of said insulation tape; wherein said high thermal conductivity layer is a thin substrate layer loaded with high thermal conductivity materials and is approximately 12.7-76.2 mym in thickness; wherein said substrate layer is chosen from the group comprising of mica, glass and a polymer film and characterized by said high thermal conductivity materials being chosen from the group consisting of silica, zinc oxide and dendrimers of approximately 1-1000 nm in size." V. The appellant essentially argued as follows: It was inherent from the description of the method in D2 (see for instance figure 9, in particular the lowest three boxes) that the sides of the tape were not coated with the high thermal conductivity layer. This distinguishing feature as defined in claim 1 was not suggested anywhere in the prior art. As depicted in figure 5 of the application, this side-coating provided a second heat conduction path from the lower tape layer to the top surface, thus effectively doubling the overall radial thermal conductivity of the lapped tapes. The choice of silica or zinc oxide as the high thermal conductivity material resulted in improved thermal performance. This was particularly the case for zinc oxide, which sublimes at 1800°C. Silica also had the advantage of widespread availability. Document D4 was not relevant in this respect because, unlike D2, it did not relate to tapes which are coated with high thermal conductivity material on top and bottom.