--- PAGE 1 ---
What is claimed is:

1. An insulation tape lapped around an electrical object comprising:

an insulation tape that is surface coated with a high thermal conductivity layer,
wherein said high thermal conductivity layer is coated on at least a top surface, a
bottom surface, and a side surface of said insulation tape;

an electrical object lapped by said insulation tape, wherein said insulation tape
provides electrical insulation to said electrical object, and wherein said electrical ob-
ject produces heat;

wherein the lapping of said insulation tape form an overlap such that a portion
of a top surface of said tape in a first lap is contacted by at least a portion of a bottom
surface of said tape in a next lap forming an interface between said first lap and said
next lap;

wherein said high thermal conductivity layer is a thin substrate layer loaded
with high thermal conductivity materials and is approximately 0.5-3.0 mils in thick-
ness;

wherein said substrate layer is chosen from the group comprising of mica,
glass and a polymer film and characterized by said high thermal conductivity materi-
als being chosen from the group consisting of silica, zinc oxide and dendrimers of

approximately 1-1000 nm in size.

2. The insulation tape of claim 1, wherein the conductivity of said high thermal

conductivity layer is 1-100 W/mK.

3. The insulation tape of claim 2, wherein the thermal conductivity of said high

thermal conductivity layer is 40-80 W/mK.

4. The insulation tape of claim 1, wherein the radial thermal conductivity of said

insulation tape is lapped around said electrical object is 0.5-10 W/mk.

17

--- PAGE 2 ---
5. The insulation tape of claim 4, wherein the radial conductivity of said insulation
tape lapped around said electrical object is 1-8 W/mk.

6. The insulation tape of claim 1, wherein said high thermal conductivity layer is a
direct surface coating approximately 20-200 nm in thickness.
7. The insulation tape of claim 6, wherein said direct surface coating is a diamond

like coating.

8. The insulation tape of claim 6, wherein said direct surface coating is at least
one of Al2O3, AIN, MgOz2, ZnO, BN, SisN4, SiC and SiO2 with mixed stoichiometric

and non-stoichiometric combinations.

9. The insulation tape of claim 1, wherein said high thermal conductivity layer is a
resinous coating of is approximately 0.05-1.0 mils, and wherein said resinous coating
is loaded with high thermal conductivity having aspect ratios of approximately of 3 to
100.

10. The insulation tape of claim 1, wherein the lapping of said insulation tape on
said electrical object is lapped in at least one of a half-lap and a double half-lap man-

ner.

11. A high thermal conductivity coating on a surface of an electrically insulative
tape comprising:

an electrically insulative tape that is surface coated with a high thermal con-
ductivity layer on at least one surface of said electrically insulative tape;

wherein said high thermal conductivity layer comprises at least one of a direct
surface coating, a resinous layer loaded with high thermal conductivity materials, and
a substrate layer;

wherein when said electrically insulative tape is lapped about an object in an

overlapping manner so that an interface is formed between layers of said electrically

18

--- PAGE 3 ---
insulative tape, and wherein said high thermal conductivity layer is continuous along
said interface;

wherein the thermal conductivity of said high thermal conductivity layer is
1-100 W/mK,

characterized by said resinous coating being loaded with high thermal con-
ductivity materials chosen from the group consisting of silica, zinc oxide and den-
drimers of approximately 1-1000 nm in size.

12. The high thermal conductivity coating of claim 11, wherein said high thermal
conductivity layer is coated on at least one of a top surface, and a bottom surface of
said electrically insulative tape.

13. The high thermal conductivity coating of claim 12, wherein high thermal con-
ductivity layer is coated on a top surface, a bottom surface and lengthwise side sur-
faces.

14. | The high thermal conductivity coating of claim 11, wherein said direct surface

coating is a diamond like coating.

15. The high thermal conductivity coating of claim 14, wherein said direct surface
coating is at least one of AlzO3, AIN, MgQOz2, ZnO, BN, Si3N4, SiC and SiOz.

16. The high thermal conductivity coating of claim 11, wherein said substrate layer
is chosen from the group comprising of mica, glass and a polymer film and wherein
said high thermal conductivity materials are chosen from the group consisting of sil-
ica, alumina, magnesium oxide, silicon carbide, boron nitride, aluminum nitride, zinc
oxide and diamonds and dendrimers of approximately 1-1000 nm in size

17. An electrically insulative tape lapped around an electrical object comprising:
a high thermal conductivity coating surface coated on said tape, wherein at

least a top surface and a bottom surface of said tape are coated;

19

--- PAGE 4 ---
wherein said tape is lapped around said electrical object such that at least one
quarter of said tape is lapped by a next layer of said tape, and wherein the contact
between layers of said tape forms an interface;

wherein said interface is substantially uniformly made up of said high thermal
conductivity coating on the surfaces of said tape;

characterized by said high thermal conductivity coating comprising at least one
of ZnO and SiOz;
. wherein the thermal conductivity of said high thermal conductivity layer is
4-100 WimK.

20