TITLE:
High thermal conductivity insulating member and its manufacturing method, electromagnetic coil, and electromagnetic device

TYPE:
World International Patent Organisation

ABSTRACT:
A tape- or sheet-shaped high thermal conductivity insulating member, its manufacturing method, an electromagnetic coil comprising the high thermal conductivity insulating member, and an electromagnetic device such as a power generator having the electromagnetic coil. It is necessary to improve the cooling performance of an electromagnetic coil of an electric device so as to enhance the efficiency and to reduce the size and manufacturing cost. For the enhancement, it has been tried to increase the thermal conductivity of a tape- or sheet-shaped insulating member of the electromagnetic coil. However, there have been problems that the thermal conductivity of conventional insulating members has been insufficient, and only special resin components can be used. To solve the above problems, according to the invention, the tape- or sheet-shaped insulating member is made of a material such that first particles having a thermal conductivity of 1 to 300 W/mK and second particles having a thermal conductivity of 0.5 to 300 W/mK are dispersed in a resin base.

CLAIMS:
The scope of the claims  1. A resin base material, first particles having a thermal conductivity of 1 WZm K or more and 30 O WZm K or less dispersed in the resin base material, and the first particles dispersed in the resin base material A highly thermally conductive insulating member characterized by comprising: a second particle having a thermal conductivity of at least S WZm K and at most 300 W / m K;  2. In a tape-shaped or sheet-shaped highly thermally conductive insulating member having a force layer and a backing material layer, the backing material layer comprises a resin base material and 1 WZm K dispersed in the resin base material. A first particle having a thermal conductivity of at least 30 OW / mK or less, and a first particle having a thermal conductivity of at least 0.5 W / mK and at most 30 OWZmK dispersed in the resin base material. A highly heat-conductive insulating member, characterized in that the member comprises:  3. In a tape- or sheet-like high heat conductive insulating member having a my-force layer and a backing material layer, the my-force layer is a mica scales force. (Mica paper) and second particles having a thermal conductivity of at least 0.5 WZ mK and at most 30 OW / mK dispersed in the mica paper, Insulating member.  4. The insulating member according to claim 1,  The diameter of the second particles is smaller than the diameter of the first particles. 5. The insulating member according to claim 1,  The diameter of the second particles is 0.15 times or less of the diameter of the first particles. 6. The insulating member according to claim 3, The diameter of the second particles is at least 0.15 times the diameter of the my flakes.  7. The insulating member according to claim 1,  The first particles include boron nitride, aluminum nitride, aluminum oxide, magnesium oxide, silicon nitride, chromium oxide, aluminum hydroxide, artificial diamond, and diamond-like force. It is composed of one or more members selected from the group consisting of monocarbon, carbon-like diamond, silicon carbide, layered silicate clay mineral, and myric.  8. The insulating member according to claim 1,  The second particles are made of either carbon or aluminum oxide.  9. The insulating member according to claim 3,  The second particles include boron nitride, carbon, aluminum nitride, aluminum oxide, magnesium oxide, silicon nitride, chromium oxide, aluminum hydroxide, artificial diamond, and diamond. It is composed of one or more selected from the group consisting of mond-like carbon, carbon-like diamond, silicon carbide, gold, copper, iron, layered silicate clay minerals, and mylite.  10. The insulating member according to claim 3,  The second particles are made of either carbon or aluminum oxide.  1 1. The insulating member according to claim 1, The content of the second particles in the backing material layer is 0.5 Vo 1% or more. 1 2. The insulating member according to claim 1,  The content of the second particles is 33.3 Vo 1% or less with respect to the total of the second particles and the resin.  13. The insulating member according to claim 2,  The backing material layer is provided on both sides of the my strength layer, 14 4. The insulating member according to claim 3,  The my force layer is provided on both sides of the backing material layer, 15 5. The insulating member according to claim 2,  The my force layer is composed of a mica paper (mica scales) force, and 0.5 WZm K or more and 300 WZm K dispersed in the my capeno. Including a second particle with the following thermal conductivity:  1 6. The insulating member according to claim 3,  The backing material layer includes: a resin substrate; first particles having a thermal conductivity of lW / mK or more and 30 OW / mK or less dispersed in the resin substrate; And second particles having a thermal conductivity of not less than 0.5 W / m K and not more than 30 O WZm K dispersed therein.  17. The insulating member according to claim 2,  The backing material layer is wider than the my strength layer. 18. The insulating member according to claim 3,  The my strength layer is wider than the backing material layer. 19. A method for producing a tape-shaped or sheet-shaped highly thermally conductive insulating member having a my force layer and a backing material layer, (a) l WZm K to 30 OW / m K The first particles are kneaded at a predetermined ratio with the second particles having a thermal conductivity of 5 W / mK or more and 30 OW / mK or less and a resin solution. (B) Impregnation of the kneaded material Impregnate the body,  (c) heating and curing the kneaded material impregnated in the impregnated body, thereby obtaining a backing material layer,  (d) 刖 d The backing material layer is stuck on mica paper and  (e) The backing material layer and the my-strength paper which have been stuck together are formed into a tape or sheet by applying pressure with a roll press on the upper and lower surfaces. Manufacturing method of a high heat conductive insulating member.  20. The method according to claim 19, wherein  The impregnated body is glass cloth or resin film.  21. A method for producing a tape-like or sheet-like high thermal conductive insulating member having a my force layer and a backing material layer, comprising:  (i) A second particle having a thermal conductivity of 0.5 W / mK or more and 300 WZmK or less, my scales (mica scales), and a solvent are mixed and stirred at a predetermined ratio,  (ii) filtering the mixed and stirred mixture with a predetermined filter, and drying the mixture to obtain mica paper; (iii) The mica paper is adhered to the backing material layer and adhered. (iv) The adhered and adhered mica paper backing material layer is pressurized by a roll press. And shaped into a tape or sheet. Manufacturing method of a high heat conductive insulating member.  22. An electromagnetic coil having the winding conductor insulated and covered with the insulating member according to claim 2.  23. An electromagnetic coil having the winding conductor insulated by using the insulating member according to claim 3.  24. Two insulating members according to claim 2 are wound alternately around the winding conductor with the upper and lower surfaces thereof being opposite to each other, and the displacement between the insulating members being shifted by a predetermined width. Electromagnetic coil.  25. A method of using two insulating members according to claim 3, wherein the upper and lower surfaces are alternately wound around the winding conductor with the upper and lower surfaces thereof being opposite to each other and the shift width between the tapes being shifted by a predetermined width. Electromagnetic coil.  26. The electromagnetic coil according to claim 24, wherein a shift width between the tapes when winding the insulating member mica tape is smaller than 1/2 of the tape width W. Il.  27. The electromagnetic coil according to claim 25, wherein a shift width between the tapes when winding the mica tape is smaller than 1/2 of a tape width W.  28. An electromagnetic coil, wherein two insulating members according to claim 2 are used and their upper and lower surfaces are bonded to each other and wound around a wound conductor.  29. An electromagnetic coil, characterized in that two insulating members according to claim 3 are used and their upper and lower surfaces are bonded and wound around a wound conductor. 30. An electromagnetic device comprising the electromagnetic coil according to claim 22. 31. An electromagnetic device comprising the electromagnetic coil according to claim 23.