The appeal lies from the decision of the Examining Division refusing European patent application No. 05 730 732.4 with the European publication No. 1 748 806. II. Inter alia the following documents were cited in the examination proceedings: (1)    WO 2004/009145 and (2)    US-A-6 673 385. III. In the decision under appeal, the Examining Division found that the subject-matter of claim 1 of each of the then pending main and auxiliary requests 1 to 4 lacked inventive step over a combination of document (1) with inter alia document (2). IV. In a communication dated 11 March 2015 accompanying a summons to oral proceedings, the Board indicated that the subject-matter of the main request and auxiliary requests 1 to 5 filed with the Statement of Grounds would appear to lack an inventive step. V. With letter dated 20 July 2015, the Appellant (Applicant) filed a main request and four auxiliary requests, said requests superseding all previous requests. Claim 1 of the main request reads as follows: "A composition comprising: (a) a biologically compatible structural component comprising a linear acrylic polymer, wherein the linear acrylic polymer is a linear acrylic homopolymer or a linear acrylic copolymer having the structure: FORMULA/TABLE/GRAPHIC wherein (i) X is hydrogen or a methyl group; (ii) each of R and R1 is independently methyl, ethyl, n-propyl, iso-propyl, n-butyl, sec-butyl, iso-butyl, tert-butyl, lauryl, or 2-hydroxyethyl; (iii) m is a positive integer; and (iv) n is 0 or a positive integer; and (b) a biobeneficial component comprising a copolymer having a biobeneficial and an acrylate moiety, which copolymer is a random, block, graft or brush copolymer comprising: FORMULA/TABLE/GRAPHIC wherein (iii) X is hydrogen or a methyl group; (iv) R is methyl, ethyl, n-propyl, iso-propyl, n-butyl, sec-butyl, iso-butyl, tert-butyl, lauryl, or 2-hydroxyethyl; and (v) Q is a fragment providing the copolymer with biobeneficial properties, wherein Q is derived from superoxide dismutate-mimetics (SODm), diazenium diolate type nitric oxide donors, polycationic peptides, or mixtures thereof, wherein the mass ratio between the structural component and the biobeneficial component is from 99:1 to 1:1; wherein the SODm is manganese (II) dichloroaminoethyl thiolated pentaazatetracyclohexacosatriene (SOD-40470); wherein the diazenium diolate type nitric oxide donors are selected from N-{4-[1-(3-aminopropyl)-2-hydroxy-2-nitrosohydrazino]butyl}-diazen-1-ium-1,2-diolate, 1-{N-methyl-N-[6-(N-methylammonio)hexyl]amino}diazen-1-ium-1,2-diolate, and Z-1-[N-(2-aminoethyl)-N-(2-ammonioethyl)amino]diazen-1-ium-1,2-diolate; and wherein the polycationic peptides are selected from poly(L-arginine), poly(D-arginine), poly(D,L-arginine), poly(delta-guanidino-alpha-aminobutyric acid), a racemic mixture of poly(L-arginine) or poly(D-arginine)." VI. The Appellant submitted that there was a basis for the subject-matter of claims 1 to 10 of the main request in the application as filed, such that the requirements of Article 123(2) EPC were fulfilled. The Appellant argued that the subject-matter of the main request was inventive over document (2), since the present compositions had a higher structural integrity than those of Examples 2 and 3 of document (2) in view of the presence of the linear acrylic homopolymer or linear acrylic copolymer. This was because the biobeneficial moiety disrupted the intermolecular interactions between the polymer chains of the acrylic copolymer to which it was attached, consequently reducing the structural integrity of a coating composition comprising such a composition. Furthermore, there was no suggestion, either in document (2) or in any of the other cited prior art, to replace the polyethylene glycol (PEG) or sulfanato biobeneficial moieties in the copolymers of Examples 2 and 3 of document (2) with the very specific superoxide dismutate mimetics, diazenium diolate type nitric oxide donors and polycationic peptides according to present claim 1. Nor did any of the cited documents teach adding a linear acrylic homopolymer or a linear acrylic copolymer as defined in claim 1 in a 99:1 to 1:1 mass ratio to the copolymers of document (2). VII. The Appellant requested that the decision under appeal be set aside and a patent be granted on the basis of the main request or, subsidiarily, on the basis of auxiliary requests 1 to 4, all requests filed with letter dated 20 July 2015. It further requested that the oral proceedings set for 20 August 2015 be cancelled in the event that the Board considered the claims of the main request to be allowable. These oral proceedings were, thus, duly cancelled.