TITLE:
Methods for polymeric coatings stents

TYPE:
US Patent

ABSTRACT:
This invention provides a method of forming a polymeric coating for a stent. The method can comprise applying a prepolymer or a combination of prepolymers to the stent and initiating polymerization to form a polymeric coating for the stent. The coating material can optionally contain a biologically active agent or combination of agents.

CLAIMS:
1. A method of forming a polymeric coating for a stent, comprising:
(a) applying a mixture of a monomer or a combination of monomers and an initiator of polymerization to the stent; and
(b) initiating polymerization of the monomer or combination of monomers by subjecting the stent to thermal treatment or by exposing the stent to UV radiation, to form a polymeric coating for the stent, wherein:
(i) the polymer forming the coating is selected from a group consisting of poly(glycol methacrylate), poly(methyl methacrylate), poly(ethyl methacrylate), poly(butyl methacrylate), poly(sulfanato ethyl methacrylate), poly(ethylene-co-vinyl acetate), poly(ethyl acrylate), poly(urethane-acrylate), poly(acrylamide-co-ethyl methacrylate), poly(divinyl benzene), poly(triethylene glycol-co-divinyl ether), poly(tri-methylol propane triacrylate), poly(pentaerythritol tetraacrylate), poly(Bisphenol A ethoxylate diacrylate), poly(allyl ether), poly(diallyl maleate), poly(vinylidene fluoride), poly(triallyl isocyanurate), and blends thereof, and
(ii) the initiator is selected from a group consisting of benzophenone, 2,2-dimethoxy-2-phenylacetophenone, 1-hydroxycyclohexyl phenyl ketone, benzoin ethyl ether, phenyl azide, 2,2′-azobisisobutyronitrile, potassium persulfate, ammonium persulfate, and a blend of ammonium persulfate with sodium bisulfite.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein the act of applying comprises spraying the monomer or monomers at the stent.
3. The method of claim 1, wherein the polymerization is initiated by radical chain reaction.
4. The method of claim 1, wherein the polymerization is initiated by step-function reaction.
5. The method of claim 1, wherein the monomer or monomers are added to a solvent or a combination of solvents prior to application to the stent.
6. The method of claim 1, wherein the monomer or at least one of the combination of monomers is in a fluid phase at room temperature.
7. The method of claim 1, additionally including applying an active agent to the stent.
8. The method of claim 1, additionally including mixing an active agent with the monomer or at least one of the monomers if a combination of monomers is used such that the active agent is contained in the polymeric coating for sustained release after the stent has been implanted in a subject.
9. The method of claim 1, wherein the monomer comprises acrylate, vinyl or allyl compounds.
10. The method of claim 9, wherein the acrylate compound is selected from a group consisting of, glycol methacrylate, methyl methacrylate, ethyl methacrylate, butyl methacrylate, sulfanato ethyl methacrylate, ethyl acrylate, and mixtures thereof.
11. A method of forming a polymeric coating on a stent, comprising:
(a) spraying a radially expandable stent with a coating fluid, the fluid comprising a prepolymer and an therapeutic agent mixed with the prepolymer; and
(b) causing the prepolymer to react to form a polymeric coating on the stent, wherein the active agent is contained in the polymeric coating, and wherein the polymer forming the coating is selected from a group consisting of poly(glycol methacrylate), poly(methyl methacrylate), poly(ethyl methacrylate), poly(butyl methacrylate), poly(sulfanato ethyl methacrylate), poly(ethylene-co-vinyl acetate), poly(ethyl acrylate), poly(urethane-acrylate), poly(acrylamide-co-ethyl methacrylate), poly(divinyl benzene), poly(triethylene glycol-co-divinyl ether), poly(tri-methylol propane triacrylate), poly(pentaerythritol tetraacrylate), poly(Bisphenol A ethoxylate diacrylate), poly(allyl ether), poly(diallyl maleate), poly(vinylidene fluoride), poly(triallyl isocyanurate), and blends thereof.
12. The method of claim 11, wherein the fluid comprises an additive for increasing the viscosity of the fluid.
13. The method of claim 11, wherein the therapeutic agent is for the treatment of restenosis.
14. The method of claim 11, wherein the act of causing the polymer to react is initiated by step-function, radical chain reaction, or ionic polymerization processes.
15. The method of claim 11, additionally comprising applying to the stent a second fluid containing at least one other prepolymer, different than the prepolymer of the fluid, wherein the prepolymers of the fluid and second fluid are capable of reacting to form a polymeric coating.
16. The method of claim 11, additionally comprising applying to the stent a monomer for creating functional groups on the surface of the polymeric coating.
17. A method of forming a polymeric coating for a stent, comprising:
(a) applying a mixture of an oligomer or a combination of oligomers and an initiator of polymerization to the stent; and
(b) initiating polymerization of the oligomer or combination of oligomers by subjecting the stent to thermal treatment or by exposing the stent to UV radiation, to form a polymeric coating for the stent, wherein:
(i) the polymer forming the coating is poly(urethane-acrylate); and
(ii) the initiator is selected from a group consisting of benzophenone, 2,2-dimethoxy-2-phenylacetophenone, 1-hydroxycyclohexyl phenyl ketone, benzoin ethyl ether, phenyl azide, 2,2′-azobisisobutyronitrile, potassium persulfate, ammonium persulfate, and a blend of ammonium persulfate with sodium bisulfite.
18. A method of forming a polymeric coating for a stent, comprising:
(a) applying a macromer or a combination of macromers to the stent; and
(b) initiating polymerization of the macromer or combination of macromers to form a polymeric coating for the stent, wherein the polymer forming the coating is selected from a group consisting of poly(ethylene glycol diacrylate) and poly(caprolactone diacrylate).