The appellant (applicant) lodged an appeal against the decision of the examining division refusing European patent application No. 02716060.5 (based on the international application No. PCT/EP02/00020). In its decision the examining division held that the subject-matter of the independent claims of the main and the first auxiliary requests then on file did not involve an inventive step (Article 56 EPC) in view of the disclosure of documents D6:  US-A-5965631 D7:  WO-A-9748004 D8:  US-A-5030669 D9:  US-A-4824688 D10: WO-A-9640479. The second to fifth auxiliary requests then on file were not admitted into the proceedings by the examining division pursuant to Rule 137(3) EPC. II. With the statement setting out the grounds of appeal the appellant submitted sets of claims amended according to a main and first and second auxiliary requests and requested that the decision under appeal be set aside and that a patent be granted on the basis of the claims of one of these requests. III. In its communication under Article 15(1) RPBA annexed to the summons to oral proceedings the board introduced the following document into the proceedings: A1:  WO-A-9926087 and gave its preliminary assessment of the case. IV. With its reply dated 20 August 2015 the appellant submitted arguments in response to the preliminary assessment of the board. V. Oral proceedings before the board were held on 24 September 2015. The appellant confirmed the requests formulated in the statement of grounds of appeal (cf. point II above). At the end of the oral proceedings the chairwoman announced the decision of the board. VI. Claim 1 of the main request reads as follows: "A method for making a soft, edge-to-edge tinted contact lens uniformly tinted throughout the body of the lens comprising: (a) providing a polymer precursor comprising a silicone-containing macromer which is capable of forming a polymer or copolymer having high oxygen permeability, wherein the polymer precursor comprises 60 to 85 weight percent oxyperm polymerizable material and 15 to 40 weight percent ionoperm polymerizable material in the prepolymerization mixture, based on the total polymerizable material weight; (b) providing a pigment dispersion comprising a phthalocyanine pigment and a dispersing agent; (c) mixing the pigment dispersion and the polymer precursor to form a tinted prepolymer mixture; (d) dispensing the tinted prepolymer mixture into a mold; and (e) cross-linking or polymerizing the tinted prepolymer mixture in the mold to form a soft, edge-to-edge tinted contact lens uniformly tinted throughout the body of the lens having an oxygen transmissibility (Dk/t) of at least 60 barrers/mm comprising a polymer matrix and the pigment entrapped therein." The set of claims of the main request also includes dependent claims 2 to 11, all directed to particular embodiments of the method defined in claim 1. The wording of the claims of the first and the second auxiliary requests is not relevant to the present decision.