--- PAGE 1 ---
Main Request

1. A method for making a soft, edge-to-edge tinted contact lens uniformly tinted

throughout the body of the lens comprising:

(a) providing a polymer precursor comprising a silicone-containing macromer
which is capable of forming a polymer or copolymer having high oxygen permeability,
wherein the polymer precursor comprises 60 to 85 weight percent oxyperm
polymerizable material and 15 to 40 weight percent ionoperm polymerizable material

in the prepolymerization mixture, based on the total polymerizable material weight;

(b) providing a pigment dispersion comprising a phthalocyanine pigment and a
dispersing agent;

(c) mixing the pigment dispersion and the polymer precursor to form a tinted

prepolymer mixture;

(d) dispensing the tinted prepolymer mixture into a mold; and

(e) cross-linking or polymerizing the tinted prepolymer mixture in the mold to form
a soft, edge-to-edge tinted contact lens uniformly tinted throughout the body of the
lens having an oxygen transmissibility (Dk/t) of at least 60 barrers/mm comprising a
polymer matrix and the pigment entrapped therein.

2. The method of claim 1, wherein the contact lens is a vision correction contact
lens.

3. The method of claim 1 or 2, wherein the polymer precursor is a liquid material.
4. The method of any one of claims 1 to 3, wherein the polymer precursor

comprises a poly(dimethyl! siloxane) macromer having a number average molecular
weight of from 500 to 20,000.

--- PAGE 2 ---
-2-

5. The method of any one of claims 1 to 4, wherein the pigment dispersion is
miscible with the polymer precursor.

6. The method of any one of claims 1 to 5, wherein the dispersing agent is the
same material as the polymer precursor of step (a).

7. The method of any one of claims 1 to 5, wherein the dispersing agent is an

acrylated or methacrylated siloxane monomer.

8. The method of any one of claims 1 to 5, wherein the dispersing agent is any
monomer comprising alkylenetris(trimethylsiloxy) silane.

9. The method of any one of claims 1 to 5, wherein the dispersing agent is
selected from the group consisting of methyl methacrylate, isobutyl acrylate, isooctyl
acrylate, isodecyl acrylate, 2-ethylhexyl acrylate, hexafluorobutyl (meth)acrylate,
HEMA, TRIS and acrylonitrile, or a mixture thereof.

10. The method of any one of claims 1 to 9, wherein the tinted prepolymer mixture

according to step (c) in addition comprises at least one hydrophilic vinyl monomer.

11. |The method of any one of claims 1 to 4 and 10, wherein the polymer precursor
comprises 3-methacryloxypropyltris(trimethylsiloxy) silane (TRIS) and the dispersing
agent consists of TRIS.