TITLE:
Extended wear ophthalmic lens

TYPE:
US Patent

ABSTRACT:
An ophthalmic lens suited for extended-wear periods of at least one day on the eye without a clinically significant amount of corneal swelling and without substantial wearer discomfort. The lens has a balance of oxygen permeability and ion or water permeability, with the ion or water permeability being sufficient to provide good on-eye movement, such that a good tear exchange occurs between the lens and the eye. A preferred lens is a copolymerization product of a oxyperm macromer and an ionoperm monomer. The invention encompasses extended wear contact lenses, which include a core having oxygen transmission and ion transmission pathways extending from the inner surface to the outer surface.

CLAIMS:
1. An ophthalmic lens having ophthalmically compatible inner and outer surfaces, said lens being suited to extended periods of wear in continuous, intimate contact with ocular tissue and ocular fluids, said lens comprising a polymeric material which has a high oxygen permeability and a high ion permeability, said polymeric material being formed from polymerizable materials comprising:
(a) at least one oxyperm polymerizable material and
(b) at least one ionoperm polymerizable material,
wherein said lens allows oxygen permeation in an amount sufficient to maintain corneal health and wearer comfort during a period of extended, continuous contact with ocular tissue and ocular fluids, and
wherein said lens allows ion or water permeation via ion or water pathways in an amount sufficient to enable the lens to move on the eye such that corneal health is not substantially harmed and wearer comfort is acceptable during a period of extended, continuous contact with ocular tissue and ocular fluids,
wherein said polymeric material has an oxygen permeability of at least about 84 barrers and said ophthalmic lens has an ion permeability characterized either by (1) an Ionoton Ion Permeability Coefficient of greater than about 0.2×10-6 cm2 /sec or (2) an Ionoflux Diffusion Coefficient of greater than about 1.5×10-6 mm2 /min, wherein said ion permeability is measured with respect to sodium ions.
2. An ophthalmic lens of claim 1, wherein said ophthalmic lens is selected from the group consisting of contact lenses for vision correction, contact lenses for eye color modification, ophthalmic drug delivery devices, and ophthalmic wound healing devices.
3. An ophthalmic lens of claim 1, wherein said ophthalmic lens is a contact lens.
4. An ophthalmic lens of claim 1, wherein said polymeric material has an oxygen permeability of at least about 90 barrers.
5. An ophthalmic lens of claim 4, wherein said polymeric material has an oxygen permeability of at least about 105 barrers.
6. An ophthalmic lens of claim 5, wherein said polymeric material has an oxygen permeability of at least about 112.5 barrers.
7. An ophthalmic lens of claim 5, wherein said polymeric material has an oxygen permeability of at least about 130.5 barrers.
8. An ophthalmic lens of claim 6, wherein said polymeric material has an oxygen permeability of at least about 140 barrers.
9. An ophthalmic lens of claim 7, wherein said polymeric material has an oxygen permeability of at least about 150 barrers.
10. An ophthalmic lens of claim 8, wherein said polymeric material has an oxygen permeability of at least about 174 barrers.