The applicant (appellant) appealed against the decision of the Examining Division refusing European patent application No. 06014255.1. II. The Examining Division decided that the subject-matter of independent claim 1 of a main request and of an auxiliary request lacked inventive step in view of the common general knowledge of the skilled person. Although not referring to them in support of the inventive step objection, the decision cited the following documents: D1:  US-B1-6 424 933, published on 23 July 2002; and D2:  WO 03/094007 A, published on 13 November 2003. III. With the notice of appeal, the appellant maintained the main request. With the statement of grounds of appeal, it filed an auxiliary request corresponding to the auxiliary request considered in the decision under appeal. The appellant submitted inter alia that, by basing its finding of lack of inventive step on unsupported statements that certain claim features were common general knowledge, the Examining Division had infringed the appellant's right to be heard and had thereby committed a substantial procedural violation. IV. In a communication accompanying a summons to oral proceedings, the Board expressed the preliminary opinion that the subject-matter of the independent claims of both requests lacked inventive step over known navigation systems in conjunction with the following document: D3:  Halstead R.H.: "Self-Describing Files + Smart Modules = Parallel Program Visualization", Theory and Practice of Parallel Programming: International Workshop TPPP '94, Sendai, Japan, November 1994, pages 253-283. In addition, a number of clarity issues were raised. V. With a letter dated 23 January 2015, the appellant replaced its substantive requests with a new main request and a new auxiliary request. VI. Oral proceedings were held on 25 February 2015. In the course of the proceedings, the appellant replaced its substantive requests with a single main request. At the end of the oral proceedings, the chairman pronounced the Board's decision. VII. The appellant requested that the decision under appeal be set aside, that a patent be granted on the basis of the main request filed at the oral proceedings and that the appeal fee be reimbursed. VIII. Claim 1 of the main request reads as follows: "Method for organizing and managing data in a navigation database (1) of a navigation system comprising at least one data file (2), comprising storing data in the at least one data file (2); implementing at least one format description for the at least one data file (2) of the navigation database (1), wherein the format description declares types of records consisting of different data types and declares a sequence of elements of the records; implementing a parser (4) for interpreting data stored in the at least one data file (2) and for parsing the data to a navigation software, wherein the parser is controlled by the at least one format description." Claims 2 to 9 of the main request are dependent on claim 1. Claim 10 of the main request reads as follows: "Navigation database (1) for a navigation system comprising at least one data file (2) and a format description for the at least one data file (2) configured to control a parser (4) that is configured to interpret data stored in the at least one data file (2) and to parse the data to a navigation software, wherein the format description declares types of records consisting of different data types and declares a sequence of elements of the records." IX. The remaining application documents according to the main request are as follows: - Description: pages 1 to 9 filed at the oral proceedings as a clean copy (the clean copy contains minor hand-written corrections on pages 4 and 7); and - Drawings: Figures 1 and 2 as originally filed.