--- PAGE 1 ---
EP Application No.: 06 014 255.1

Applicant: Harman Becker Automotive Systems GmbH
Our Ref.: EP41088UW004
Date: January 23, 2015

CLAIMS — Main Request

Method for organizing and managing data in a navigation database (1) comprising at

least one data file (2), comprising
storing data in the at least one data file (2);

implementing at least one format description for the at least one data file (2) of the
navigation database (1), wherein the format description declares types of records
consisting of different data types and declares a sequence of elements of the

records;

implementing a parser (4) for interpreting data stored in the at least one data file (2)
and for parsing the data to an application software controlled by the at least one

format description.

Method according to claim 1, wherein the implementation of the format description is
performed by generating a format description table in a header of the at least one
data file (2) that defines record types used in the at least one data file (2) and

declares the sequence of elements constituting the records.

Method according to claim 2, wherein the format description table comprises rows
each of which comprises the same number of data entities and at least one
instruction for the parser (4) on the basis of which the parser (4) interprets data

stored in the at least one data file (2).

Method according to claim 2 or 3, wherein the parser (4) comprises at least one
register and the format description table comprises information on the format of the
data to be read and/or the transfer of read data to the at least one register and/or the

semantics of the read data.

--- PAGE 2 ---
10.

Method according to claim 4, wherein the format description table comprises a

parser (4) instruction, a syntax ID and a semantic ID in each row.

Method according to one of the claims 3 - 5, wherein the parser (4) comprises at
least one register and performs arithmetic operations and/or conditional execution of
an instruction comprised in a row of the format description table and/or executes
loop commands for reading arrays or lists of data entities with respect to data stored

in the at least one data file (2) of the navigation database (1).

Method according to one of the claims 3 - 6, wherein the parser (4) ignores data

entities in the rows that follow a predetermined number of data entries.

Method according to one of the preceding claims, wherein the format description is
installed in the at least one data file (2) of the navigation database (1) or provided on
a data volume different from each of the data volumes of the navigation database (1)
or a data set different from each of the data files (2) of the navigation database (1).

Method according to one of the preceding claims, wherein the data is at least partly
packed and wherein the parser (4) is enabled to interpret packed data.

Navigation database (1) comprising at least one data file (2) and a format description
for the at least one data file (2) configured to control a parser (4) that is configured to
interpret data stored in the at least one data file (2) and to parse the data to a
navigation software, wherein the format description declares types of records
consisting of different data types and declares a sequence of elements of the

records.