The appeal lies from the decision of the examining division to refuse European patent application No. 02753685.3 with the title "Urocortin-III and uses thereof" which was published as WO02/074326. The examining division decided that the subject-matter of all the claims of the main and the sole auxiliary requests before it lacked an inventive step (Article 56 EPC). II. With the statement of grounds of appeal the appellant submitted a main request and two auxiliary requests. III. In a communication pursuant to Article 17(1) RPBA the board expressed its preliminary opinion that all the requests on file contravened the requirements of Articles 123(2), 83 and 56 EPC. IV. With its reply, the appellant submitted three amended claim requests to replace all the previously filed requests, further arguments in favour of inventive step, and re-submitted three declarations from the inventors which had been already submitted during the proceedings before the department of first instance. Claim 1 of the main request and auxiliary requests 1 and 2 read: "1. An isolated and purified human or mouse urocortin III protein, wherein said protein has the amino acid sequence depicted in SEQ ID NO: 3 and SEQ ID NO: 5, respectively." V. Oral proceedings were held on 20 April 2015. The board considered that the issues of added matter and lack of sufficient disclosure pointed out in the board's communication had been overcome by the amended claims. The appellant was then heard on the issue of inventive step. At the end of the oral proceedings the chairwoman announced the decision of the board. VI. The following documents are cited in this decision: D1: Brunner et al. (2000), Chromosome Research, Vol. 8, No. 6, pages 465-476. D2: Reyes et al. (2001), PNAS, vol. 98, No. 5, pages 2843-2848. D8: Jongeneel (2000), Briefings in Bioinformatics, Vol. 1, No. l, pages 76-92. Declaration by Kathy Lewis dated 3 March 2009. VII. The appellant's arguments can be summarised as follows: All requests - claim 1 - inventive step Starting from the closest prior art represented by document (D2) the problem to be solved was the provision of a further active human urocortin-related peptide (URP). The relevant question was whether or not the skilled person would have had a reasonable expectation of being able to successfully identify the human peptide described in the "Note Added in Proof" on page 2848 of document (D2). It was known that the characterisation of neuropeptides was a technical field fraught with uncertainties, and the mere reference to a putative protein in a prior art document was not a guarantee that such a protein also existed. The "Note Added in Proof" in document (D2) disclosed neither the activity of the newly identified URP nor the strategy or database used to identify it. Thus, the skilled person merely had the knowledge of the putative existence of the peptide of interest. This however did not confer any expectation of success on the skilled person that such a protein could actually be identified, as this required that the skilled person could rationally predict the successful conclusion of the identification process. Accordingly, the skilled person would have had no reason to embark on the project of solving the formulated problem. Even if the skilled person had tried to identify the new peptide referred to in "Note Added in Proof" in document (D2) then the selection of the appropriate database to be searched combined with the appropriate algorithm would require a level of expertise beyond that in the relevant technical field. As a first step to identify a further URP, the skilled person would have searched human genome databases, as this was the approach also taken in document (D2) (see the paragraph bridging pages 2844 and 2845). As explained on paragraph 4 of the declaration of the inventor Kathy Lewis dated 3 March 2009, the skilled person would then however have failed to identify the peptide referred to in the "Note Added in Proof" in document (D2) and would thus have come to a dead end in the search for the peptide. At this point the skilled person would abandon the attempt to identify the desired peptide as claimed. After the failure with human genome databases the skilled person would have been reluctant to search in human EST databases which, in view of the drawbacks indicated on page 78 of document (D8), would not be considered to constitute the best starting point for the identification process. Moreover, even if the skilled person had then tried human EST databases, the selection of the appropriate algorithm and search parameters which allowed the identification of sequence AW293249 would still not have been straightforward, and would have gone beyond the usual level of experience of the skilled person. Assuming nevertheless that the skilled person would have identified the AW293249 sequence, he would still not have concluded that this constituted a partial clone only. After realising that the AW293249 sequence had 68% instead of 77% sequence identity with the pufferfish sequence, as mentioned in the "Note Added in Proof" in document (D2), the person skilled in the art would have classified the result as an artifact and would have abandoned the identification process at that point. Moreover, even if the skilled person had realised that AW293249 represented an incomplete sequence, he would then have failed to identify the full-length clone since the final step of extending the partial sequence required numerous PCR experiments. Finally, the identification of the cleavage sites within the primary translation products encoded by the full length coding regions went beyond the skilled person's expertise. Both the examining division in its decision and the board in its preliminary opinion contained in the communication pursuant to Article 17(1) RPBA had used a hindsight in their assessment of inventive step by drawing on the knowledge of the invention, including the examples disclosed therein, and overlooking the numerous difficulties encountered by the inventors in the finding of the claimed sequence. VIII. The appellant requested that the decision under appeal be set aside and that a patent be granted on the basis of the main request, alternatively auxiliary request 1 or 2, all as filed with its letter dated 31 July 2014.