TITLE:
Wireless transmission of vehicle data involves storing data in memory medium or providing for later readout at start of journey, carrying out changes and/or additions to data at end of journey

TYPE:
German Patent

ABSTRACT:
The method involves storing vehicle data to be exported in a memory medium, reading out the data within the framework of a vehicle data acquisition process and transmitting it. At the start of a journey the vehicle data for data export are stored in the memory medium or provided for later readout and changes and/or additions to the stored or provided data are carried out at the end of the journey.

CLAIMS:
1. A method for wireless transmission of vehicle data, in which vehicle data provided for data export is stored in a storage medium, read out and transmitted as part of a vehicle data acquisition, characterized in that
at the start of the journey, the vehicle data provided for the data export are stored in the storage medium or made available for later reading and
at the end of the trip changes and / or additions to the data stored and / or made available in the memory at the start of the trip are carried out. 2. The method according to claim 1, characterized in that Changes and / or additions to those stored in the memory at the start of the journey and / or provided data can already be carried out while driving and at the end of the trip, the data is only updated. 3. The method according to claim 1 or 2, characterized in that as a storage medium a portable data storage medium or with a car key equipped memory is used. 4. The method according to any one of claims 1 to 3, characterized characterized in that the data transmission via transponder or via radio, especially car phone. 5. The method according to any one of claims 1 to 4, characterized characterized in that the data transmission by a command from the driver is triggered. 6. The method according to any one of claims 1 to 5, characterized characterized in that the data transmission after authorization by a external command is issued. 7. The method according to any one of claims 1 to 6, characterized characterized in that the data are transferred to an external memory and read from this memory and transmitted remotely. 8. The method according to claim 7, characterized in that the Data in the external memory are deleted after the data query. 9. The method according to any one of claims 1 to 8, characterized characterized in that the vehicle electrical system after the end of the journey for a predetermined period of time remains activated. 10. The method according to any one of claims 1 to 9, characterized characterized in that the transmitted data are evaluated in a center and a troubleshooting program, in particular per data packet, to the vehicle is transferred back.