By its decision posted on 20 July 2012 the examining division refused European Patent application No. 08 161 475.2. II. Regarding the grounds for the decision, the Examining Division referred to its communications dated 22 May 2012 and 28 December 2011, in which the applicant had been informed that the subject-matter of claim 1 lacked an inventive step over - among others - a combination of document D1 with document D3. III. The appellant (applicant) lodged an appeal against that decision in the prescribed form and within the prescribed time limit. The appellant requested - that the Board set aside the decision of the Examining Division and grant the application with claims 1-8 currently on file (claims 1-8 as filed on 17 November 2009 and underlying the impugned decision), or in the alternative, - that the Board remits the case to the Examining Division or writes a communication, or holds an interview, preferably by telephone in the event that the Board decided to set aside the decision of the Examining Division but was of the opinion that the application did not entirely meet the provisions of the EPC. IV. The Board issued a summons for oral proceedings. In the accompanying communication pursuant to Article 15(1) RPBA dated 30 April 2014 the Board provided reasons why the subject-matter of claims 1 and 8 did not appear to be inventive with respect to D1: US-A-2005/0265667 and D3: EP-A-0 856 757. V. With letter dated 9 December 2014 the appellant withdrew the request for oral proceedings and requested a decision to be taken on the state of the file. VI. Independent claims 1 and 8 read as follows: Claim 1: "An eye surgical unit (1), comprising a connecting module (4) to align, upon coupling of the connecting module (4) to a connecti Claim 8: "An eye surgical instrument (5), comprising a light guide (6) and a connecting module (8) in which an end of the light guide (6) is included in order to, upon coupling of the connecting module (8) to a connecting module (4) of an eye surgical instrument (1), align the light guide (6) on one hand with respect to the connecting module (4) of the eye surgical unit (1) on the other hand, wherein during coupling the connecting modules (4, 8) of the eye surgical unit (5) and the eye surgical instrument (1) mutually cooperate and wherein the mutual cooperation of the connecting modules (4, 8) is realized by a multiple-thread screw connection of which corresponding screw connection elements (11, 13), upon coupling of the connecting modules (4, 8) through mutual rotation of the connecting modules (4, 8), mutually engage substantially simultaneously." VII. The essential arguments of the appellant can be summarised as follows: Inventive step In its decision the Examining Division had stated that the subject-matter of independent claim 1 lacked an inventive step in view of - among others - document D1 in combination with document D3. However, the Examining Division's argumentation was not convincing for the following reasons: Firstly, the Examining Division's formulation of the problem to be solved included the aim of reducing the required turning angle for a safe connection. However, incorporating said aim into the formulation of the problem implied hindsight reasoning, since the person skilled in the art would not realise that - in the context of the surgical setting - a reduction in turning would be an option. Therefore a more suitable formulation of the objective technical problem was how to realise an eye surgical unit according to the preamble of claim 1 that enables a connection to a single light guide surgical instrument, wherein the connection is both quick and safe. Secondly, when trying to solve the objective technical problem, the person skilled in the art would not at all find document D3, which - as can be seen from column 1, lines 3 to 5 of said document - was in the field of telecommunications and not in the field of single light guide connectors for eye surgical devices. Thirdly, the person skilled in the art would expect the multiple-thread connection disclosed in D3 to be less stable and more easily broken - e.g. due to vibrations -, since the friction surface was generally reduced. With vibrations being a common occurrence during surgery activities, the D3 multiple-thread connection could not be considered a quick and safe connection in the context of the surgical setting and thus did not provide a solution to the problem when correctly worded without hindsight elements. Even if the person skilled in the art considered the teaching of D3, he/she would realise that the multi-fibre connectors disclosed therein were incompatible with the single light guide BNC or SMA type connectors of the D1 eye surgical instrument. Therefore, having regard to the state of the art, the invention was not obvious to the person skilled in the art and the impugned decision was to be set aside.