--- PAGE 1 ---
Eur. pat. appln. no. 08161475.2
Our letter of 17 November 2009 EPO. DG 4
P82000EP00

10

15

20

25

17 44. 2009

New claims

1. An eye surgical unit (1), comprising a connecting module (4) to align,
upon coupling of the connecting module (4) to a connecting module (8) of an eye
surgical instrument (5), an end of a light guide (6) which is included in the
connecting module (8) of the eye surgical instrument (5) on one hand with
respect to the connecting module (4) of the eye surgical unit (1) on the other
hand, wherein during coupling the connecting modules (4, 8) of the eye surgical
unit (1) and the eye surgical instrument (5) mutually cooperate, and wherein
the mutual cooperation of the connecting modules (4, 8) is realized through a
multiple-thread screw connection of which corresponding screw connection
elements (11; 13), upon coupling of the connecting modules (4, 8) through
mutual rotation of the connecting modules (4, 8), mutually engage
substantially simultaneously.

2. An eye surgical unit according to claim 1, wherein ends of screw
connection elements where, during mutual rotation of the connecting modules,
corresponding screw connection elements begin to engage mutually, are
situated substantially in the same plane which is oriented transversely with
respect to the common rotation axis of the connecting modules.

3. An eye surgical unit according to claim 1 or 2, wherein ends of the
screw connection elements where, during mutual rotation of the connecting
modules, corresponding screw connection elements begin to engage mutually,
are substantially proportionally distributed in circumferential direction around
the common rotation axis of the connecting modules.

A. An eye surgical unit according to any one of the preceding claims,
wherein a screw connection element of the connecting module of the eye

surgical unit comprises internal or external thread.

--- PAGE 2 ---
10

15

20

5. An eye surgical unit according to any one of the preceding claims,
wherein a screw connection element extends at most once around, viewed with
respect to the common rotation axis of the connecting modules.

6. An eye surgical unit according to any one of the preceding claims,
wherein a screw element extends only over a part in circumferential direction,
viewed with respect to the common rotation axis of the connecting modules,
preferably over a segment between about 90 degrees and about 180 degrees.

7. An eye surgical unit according to any one of the preceding claims,
wherein the number of screw connection elements of the connecting module of
the eye surgical unit is three or four.

8. An eye surgical instrument (5), comprising a light guide (6) anda
connecting module (8) in which an end of the light guide (6) is included in order
to, upon coupling of the connecting module (8) to a connecting module (4) of an
eye surgical instrument (1), align the light guide (6) on one hand with respect
to the connecting module (4) of the eye surgical unit (1) on the other hand,
wherein during coupling the connecting modules (4, 8) of the eye surgical unit
(5) and the eye surgical instrument (1) mutually cooperate and wherein the
mutual cooperation of the connecting modules (4, 8) is realized by a multiple-
thread screw connection of which corresponding screw connection elements (11;
13), upon coupling of the connecting modules (4, 8) through mutual rotation of

the connecting modules (4, 8), mutually engage substantially simultaneously.