Title: Adapter for coupling an external post connector or a BNC connector to an SMA bushing

Abstract: An assembly used to adapt an external post connector, such as a BNC type connector of a microsurgical optic fiber instrument to a threaded SMA type bushing of a light source includes an adapter that can be threaded on the bushing of the light source and is also connectable to the BNC connector.

Type: US Patent

Claims: 

1. An adapter for enabling a quick connect and disconnect between an externally threaded bushing and an external post connector, the adapter comprising:
a cylindrical sleeve having an external surface and an internal surface, a portion of the internal surface having internal screw threading that is complementary to external screw threading of a bushing to which the sleeve is to be attached, at least one post on the external surface of the sleeve, the post being positioned to engage with a slot of a BNC connector to hold the BNC connector on the sleeve exterior surface; and
the sleeve is an insulator and a conductor is mounted on the sleeve post exterior.
2. The adapter of claim 1, further comprising:
a pair of posts are positioned on opposite sides of the sleeve exterior surface to engage with slots of an external post connector to hold the connector on the sleeve exterior surface.
3. The adapter of claim 1, further comprising:
a cylindrical sleeve insert mounted inside the sleeve with the insert having an internal surface and the internal screw threading being on the insert internal surface.
4. The adapter of claim 3, further comprising:
the insert being conductive.
5. The adapter of claim 3, further comprising:
an electrical device secured inside the sleeve and being electrically connected between the conductor on the sleeve post and the insert.
6. The adapter of claim 3, further comprising:
an electrical device secured inside the sleeve post and being electrically connected between the conductor on the sleeve post and the insert.
7. The adapter of claim 1, further comprising:
a lanyard attached to the adapter.
8. An assembly for connecting an optic fiber instrument to an externally threaded bushing of a light source, the assembly comprising:
an external post connector having a cylindrical collar with a center axis, the collar having at least one slot therein that spirals around the center axis of the collar;
a cylindrical insulator sleeve adapter having a center axis, an external surface and an internal surface, a portion of the internal surface having internal screw threading that is complementary to external screw threading of a bushing of a light source to which the sleeve is to be attached, at least one post on the sleeve positioned to engage in the slot of the connector to hold the collar of the connector on the external surface of the sleeve; and
a conductive insert secured inside the adapter sleeve, the insert being positioned inside the sleeve to make electrical contact with the bushing of the light source when the adapter sleeve is threaded on the bushing of the light source.
9. The assembly of claim 8, further comprising:
the collar slot being shaped to cause the collar to be attached on the external surface of the sleeve by the post engaging in the collar and in response to rotating the collar one quarter turn relative to the sleeve.
10. The assembly of claim 8, further comprising:
a conductor mounted on the one sleeve post at a position where the conductor will engage with the connector collar when the post is engaged in the slot of the connector collar.
11. The assembly of claim 10, further comprising:
an electrical device secured inside the sleeve and being electrically connected between the conductor on the sleeve post and the conductive insert.
12. The assembly of claim 10, further comprising:
an electrical device secured inside the sleeve post and being electrically connected between the conductor on the sleeve post and the insert.
13. The assembly of claim 8, further comprising:
the conductive insert having an interior surface and the internal screw threading being on the insert interior surface.
14. An adapter for enabling a quick connect and disconnect between an externally threaded bushing of a light source and an external post connector of an optic fiber instrument, the adapter comprising:
a cylindrical sleeve having an external surface and an internal surface, a portion of the internal surface having internal screw threading that is complementary to external screw threading of a light source bushing to which the sleeve is to be attached, at least one post on the external surface of the sleeve, the post being positioned to be engage with a slot of an external post connector of an optic fiber instrument to hold the connector on the sleeve exterior surface; and
an electrical device secured inside the sleeve where the electrical device will be connected in an electric circuit with the light source bushing and the BNC connector when the sleeve internal screw threading is mounted on the light source bushing external screw threading and the BNC connector is mounted on the sleeve exterior surface.
15. The adapter of claim 14, further comprising:
a conductor on the one sleeve post; and,
the electrical device being electrically connected to the conductor on the sleeve post.
16. The adapter of claim 14, further comprising:
the electrical device being secured inside the post of the sleeve.
17. The adapter of claim 14, further comprising:
a conductive insert secured inside the sleeve and the electrical device being electrically connected to the conductive insert.
18. The adapter of claim 17, further comprising:
a conductor on the one sleeve post; and,
the sleeve being an insulator and the conductive insert being insulated from the conductor on the sleeve post by the insulator sleeve.
19. The adapter of claim 18, further comprising:
the internal screw threading being on the conductive insert.
20. The adapter of claim 18, further comprising:
the electrical device being electrically connected between the conductive insert and the conductor on the sleeve post.
21. The adapter of claim 14, further comprising:
a lanyard attached to the adapter.
22. An assembly for connecting an optic fiber instrument to an externally threaded bushing of a light source, the assembly comprising:
a BNC connector having a cylindrical collar with a center axis, the collar having at least one slot therein that spirals around the center axis of the collar;
a cylindrical sleeve adapter having a center axis, an external surface and an internal surface, a portion of the internal surface having internal screw threading that is complementary to external screw threading of a bushing of a light source to which the sleeve is to be attached, at least one post on the sleeve positioned to engage in the slot of the BNC connector to hold the collar of the BNC connector on the external surface of the sleeve; and
an electrical device secured inside the sleeve.
23. The assembly of claim 22, further comprising:
the electrical device being secured inside the post of the sleeve.
24. The assembly of claim 22, further comprising:
a conductor on the sleeve post; and,
the electrical device being electrically connected to the conductor on the sleeve post.
25. The assembly of claim 22, further comprising:
a conductive insert secured inside the sleeve and the electrical device being electrically connected to the conductive insert.
26. The assembly of claim 25, further comprising:
a conductor on the sleeve post; and,
the sleeve being an insulator and the conductive insert being insulated from the conductor on the sleeve post by the insulator.
27. The assembly of claim 26, further comprising:
the internal screw threading being on the conductive insert.
28. The assembly of claim 26, further comprising:
the electrical device being electrically connected between the conductive insert and the conductor on the sleeve post.