--- PAGE 1 ---
26

New Main Request

1. A detecting method using an ion trap mass spectrometer, comprising:

a first analysis step (201) of acquiring a mass spectrum;

a first decision step (202) of deciding whether ions of a first predetermined
peculiar m/z are present on the basis of an analysis of the data resulting from the
mass spectrometry in the first analysis step;

a second analysis step (203) of making tandem mass spectrometry only if
the decision results from said first analysis step imply that ions of the first prede-
termined peculiar m/z are present; and

a second decision step (204) of deciding whether ions of a second prede-
termined peculiar m/z are present according to said mass spectrum obtained by

said tandem mass spectrometry.

2. The method of claim 1, further comprising:

a step of reading in analysis conditions from a database according to the

decision results of said first decision step (202).

3. The method according to claim 1 or 2, further comprising
an announcement step (205) of issuing an alarm according to the decision

results from said second decision step (204).

A. The method according to claim 1 wherein said second analysis step (203)
has a trapping step (206) of trapping said ions of said first predetermined peculiar
m/z, a selection step (207) of selecting ions of a particular m/z from said trapped
ions, and an ejection step (208) of ejecting said ions selected by said selection

step.

--- PAGE 2 ---
27

5. The method according to claim 4, further comprising
a step of measuring a current value of said ions ejected in said ejection

step.

6. The method according to claim 1, wherein said second analysis (203) step
has a trapping step (206) of trapping said ions of said first predetermined peculiar
m/z, a dissociation step (209) of dissociating said trapped ions, and a third analy-
sis step (212) of making mass spectrometry for ions derived from nitro groups

produced by said ion dissociation.

7. The method according to claim 1, further comprising:

carrying an object to be checked with a first carrying speed;

sucking gas derived from said carried object;

ionizing a sample contained in said gas by corona discharge;

wherein the first analysis step (201) is conducted on the ions generated in
the ionization step using the ion trap mass spectrometer;

wherein only if the decision results from said first analysis step imply that
ions of the first predetermined peculiar m/z are present, the carrying speed of the
carried object is reduced and the second analysis step (202) is conducted; and

wherein the first predetermined m/z is peculiar to a dangerous substance

and the second m/z is peculiar to fragment ions of the dangerous substance.

8. A detecting device comprising:
a carrying mechanism (57) for carrying objects to be checked;
a carrying mechanism controller (58) for controlling the carrying speed of

said carrying mechanism;

--- PAGE 3 ---
28

a gas-sucking portion (21, 54, 56) for sucking gas derived from said ob-
jects;

an ion source (20) for ionizing a sample contained in said gas by corona
discharge;

an ion trap mass spectrometer (36-43) for making first mass spectrometry
for analyzing ions generated by said ion source; and

a data processor (44) for deciding whether a dangerous substance exists
on the basis of an analysis of the data resulting from said first mass spectrometry,

whereby only if it is decided that said gas contains said dangerous sub-
stance according to the data resulting from said first mass spectrometry, said car-
rying mechanism controller (58) is adapted to reduce the carrying speed of said
carrying mechanism (57) on the basis of a signal from said data processor, and
said data processor is adapted to order said ion trap mass spectrometer (36-43) to

make a second mass spectrometry according to tandem mass spectrometry.