--- PAGE 1 ---
EPO -DG 1

16 @7. 2009
Claims:
117
I. A secure offline interactive gambling system (10) comprising:
a subscriber unit (30); and
a secure processor (140) operatively associated with the subscriber unit
(30);

characterised in that:

the subscriber unit (30) is operative to insecurely store an offline
interactive gambling application including all rules governing execution of the offline
interactive gambling application, and, through interaction with a user, to execute the
offline interactive gambling application;

the secure processor (140) further comprises a secure memory (200)
operative to securely store information related to the execution of the offline interactive
gambling application, said information comprising information from which at least one
result of the offline interactive gambling application can be derived, wherein said
information related to the execution of the offline interactive gambling application
comprises: a log of the gambling input generated during execution of the offline
interactive gambling application; and a log of at least some user selections made in
response to said gambling input during execution of the offline interactive gambling
application; and by

a communication interface (70) operatively associated with the subscriber
unit (30) and the secure processor (140) and operative to securely transmit said

information related to the execution of the offline interactive gambling application.
2. The system according to claim | and wherein the subscriber unit (30)
comprises a set-top box (40) and the secure processor (140) is comprised in a removable

security element comprising a smart card.

3. The system according to claim 2, wherein the set-top box is operative to

download the offline interactive gambling application.

32

--- PAGE 2 ---
4, The system according to any of claims | - 3 and wherein said information
related to the execution of the offline interactive gambling application comprises a log of
all user selections made in response to said gambling input during execution of the offline

interactive gambling application.

5. The system according to any of claims | — 4 further comprising a central
gambling facility for verifying said at least one result of the offline interactive
application, wherein the central gambling facility is in operative communication with the
subscriber unit (30), the central gambling facility comprising:

a central gambling facility communication interface (100) operative to
receive from the secure processor (140) associated with the subscriber unit (30) of the
gambling system (10) said information; and

a processing unit (110) operatively associated with the central gambling
facility communication interface (100) and operative to check said information and to
derive from said information at least one result of the offline interactive gambling

application.

6. The system according to claim 5 and wherein said processing unit (110) is
operative to check said information and to verify said at least one result by re-executing
the offline interactive gambling application with said gambling input and said user

selections.

7, The system according to claim 6 and wherein said processing unit (110)
re-executes the offline interactive gambling application by performing at least one of the
following: a repeated execution of a portion of the offline interactive gambling
application; a repeated execution of the entire offline interactive gambling application;
and execution of a corresponding verification application that provides results
substantially identical to results obtained by execution of the offline interactive gambling

application.

bo
we

--- PAGE 3 ---
8. The system according to any of claims | - 7 and wherein the secure
processor (140) comprises a random gambling input generator (230) operatively
associated with the secure memory (200) operative to randomly or pseudo-randomly
generate the gambling input to the offline interactive gambling application during

execution of the offline interactive gambling application.

9. A secure Offline interactive gambling method comprising:

insecurely storing an offline interactive gambling application including all
rules governing execution of the offline interactive gambling application;

executing the offline interactive gambling application through interaction
with a user;

securely storing information related to the execution of the offline
interactive gambling application, said information comprising information from which at
least one result of the offline interactive gambling application can be derived, wherein
said securely storing said information comprises securely storing: a log of at least some
user selections made in response to said gambling input during execution of the offline
interactive gambling application; and a log of the gambling input generated during
execution of the offline interactive gambling application; and

securely transmitting said information related to the execution of the

offline interactive gambling application.

10. The method according to claim 9 and wherein said insecurely storing
comprises insecurely storing the offline interactive gambling application in a subscriber
unit (30) comprising a set-top box and said securely storing comprises securely storing
the information related to the execution of the offline interactive gambling application in

a removable security element comprising a smart card.

11. The method according to claim 10 and wherein said insecurely storing

comprises downloading the offline interactive gambling application to the set-top box.

--- PAGE 4 ---
12. The method according to any of claims 9 - 11 and wherein said securely
storing comprises securely storing a log of all user selections made in response to said

gambling input during execution of the offline interactive gambling application.

13. The method according to any of claims ~9 - 12 and also comprising at a
processing unit (110) operatively associated with the central gambling system checking
said information and verifying said at least one result of the offline interactive gambling

application at a central gambling facility.

14. The method according to claim 13 and wherein said checking and said
verifying comprise re-executing the offline interactive gambling application with said

gambling input and user selections made in response to said gambling input.

15. The method according to claim 14 and wherein said re-executing
comprises at least one of the following: repeating execution of a portion of the offline
interactive gambling application; repeating execution of the entire offline interactive
gambling application; and executing a corresponding verification application that
provides results substantially identical to results obtained by execution of the offline

interactive gambling application.