TITLE:
Method and apparatus for controlling a gaming operation

TYPE:
US Patent

ABSTRACT:
A system for controlling a gaming operation comprises a secure processing and memory apparatus in the form of a smart card, together with non-secure input and display means connectable to the smart card. The memory of the smart card stores software controlling the operation of the game and also data relating to gains or losses of the player. Input signals generated by the player are processed within the secure processor and all operations which can influence the outcome of the game are carried out within the secure processor so that the system is not susceptible to tampering, even when used in a non-secure environment. Thus, the system allows gaming to take place in hotel rooms and other non-secure locations, with secure betting and allocation of winnings

CLAIMS:
1. A method of controlling a gaming operation in which a player bets on the outcome of a game, the method comprising:
providing secure apparatus comprising secure processor means for controlling the gaming operation and associated secure memory means for storing data;
storing in the secure memory means software related to the control and operation of a game and data relating to gains or losses of the player of the game;
transmitting inputs signals to the secure processor means from input means operated by the player; and
transmitting output signals from the secure processor means to display means, wherein the result of the game and the allocation of gains and losses to the player are exclusively controlled by operations performed by the software and the data derived from the input signals, in the secure apparatus.
2. A system for controlling a gaming operation in which a player bets on the output of the game, the system comprising:
secure apparatus comprising secure processor means for controlling the gaming operation with associated secure memory means for storing data;
input means selectively connectable to the secure processor means, the input means being connected to the secure processor means and operable by a player of a game to transmit input signals to the secure processor means during operation of the game;
display means connectable to the secure processor means for receiving output signals from the secure processor means representing a result of the game;
wherein the secure memory means stores software related to the control and operation of the game and data relating to gains or losses to the player, and wherein the result of the game and the allocation of gains or losses to the player are exclusively controlled by operations performed by the software and the data derived from the input signals, in the secure apparatus.
3. A system according to claim 2, wherein the secure processor means and the secure memory means are provided together on a “smart card” comprising a substrate supporting the secure processor means and the secure memory means, and contacts means for permitting communication between the secure processor means and the input and display means.
4. A system according to claim 2, wherein the input means is a keyboard of a computer, a keypad of a telephone, or a keypad on a dedicated games apparatus.
5. A system according to claim 2, wherein the input means comprises a “touch screen” display.
6. A system according to claim 2, wherein the input means comprises a mouse.
7. A system according to claim 2 wherein the display means comprises a television set, a video display unit or monitor or a liquid crystal display.
8. A system according to claim 2 wherein the secure memory means includes a first memory for storing the software, and a second memory for storing results of the game and the data representing the value of gains or losses of the player which is adjusted according to the outcome of the game.
9. Secure apparatus for use in a system for controlling a gaming operation in which a player bets on the outcome of a game, the secure apparatus comprising secure processor means with associated secure memory means, wherein the secure memory means stores software related to the control and operation of a game and data relating to gains or losses of the player, and wherein the result of the game and the allocation of gains or losses to the player are controlled by operations performed by the software and the data derived from the input signals, in the secure apparatus, the secure processor means being adapted for connection to input means operable by a player of a game to transmit input signals to the secure processor means, and further being adapted for connection to display means arranged to receive output signals from the secure processor means representing a result of the game.
10. The method of claim 1, wherein the data is representative of a credit value allocated to the player.
11. The method of claim 1, further comprising providing second processor means.
12. The method of claim 11, wherein the input signals to the secure processor means from the input means are transmitted via the second processor means to commence a game and to enter a bet and the method further comprising after the step of transmitting input signals:
reducing the credit value represented by the data by an amount corresponding to a bet may be the player.
13. The method of claim 11, wherein the output signals represent a result of the game and are transmitted via the second processor means and the method further comprising after the step of transmitting input signals:
increasing or reducing the credit value according to the outcome of the game.
14. The method of claim 13, wherein the increasing or reducing of the credit value are exclusively controlled within the secure apparatus.
15. The system of claim 2, further comprising second processor means.
16. The system of claim 15, wherein the input means is connectable to the secure processor means via the second processor means and operable by a player to commence a game.
17. The system of claim 15, wherein the display means is connectable to the secure processor means via the second processor means for receiving output signals.
18. The system of claim 2, wherein the second data is representative of a credit value allocated to the player and wherein the secure processor means operates to reduce the credit value by an amount corresponding to a bet made by the player, and to increase or decrease the credit value according to the outcome of the game to allocate gains and losses to the player.
19. The system of claim 9, wherein the data is representative of a credit value allocated to the player and wherein the secure processor means operates to reduce the credit value by an amount corresponding to a bet made by the player, and to increase or decrease the credit value according to the outcome of the game to allocate gains and losses to the player.