The appeal lies from the decision of the examining division to refuse the European patent application No. 03 761 157.1. II. In the reasons given for the refusal, the examining division referred inter alia to the following state of the art: D2:    WO 98/13131 A1; D5:    US 4 191 182; and D9:    US 5 695 653. The examining division concluded that the subject-matter of the respective claims 1 according to the then pending requests was either not clear, not novel in view of D2 (figure 8), and/or not inventive in view of a combination of D9, taken as closest prior art, with D5. III. In its statement of grounds, the appellant (applicant) submitted that the examining division's findings were erroneous because they were based on a wrong interpretation of the wording of the claims. With the statement of grounds it filed four amended claim requests. IV. The board summoned the appellant to oral proceedings, indicating its preliminary view regarding inter alia the interpretation and clarity of claim 1 (regarding the shape, relative position and/or function of some elements of the claimed device), questioned generally compliance of claim 1 (combination of features) with the requirements of Article 123(2) EPC, called into question novelty and inventiveness of the claimed device over D2 (figure 8). The board also indicated its intention to remit the case if one of the independent device claims 1 overcame the pending objections. V. In reply to the board's communication, the appellant submitted three sets of further amended claims to replace the ones on file, arguing that the pending objections were overcome thereby. VI. At the oral proceedings held on 17 July 2015, remaining objections under Articles 84 and/or 123(2) EPC, maintained/raised by the board against claim 1 of the amended main request then on file and regarding the shape, relative arrangement and/or function of the filter, the crossflow chamber and the inlet, were addressed. In reaction thereto, the appellant filed a new set of amended claims 1 to 56 as its sole claim request, claim 1 thereof reading as follows: "1. A tangential flow filtration device for preparing a cell population enriched for leukocytes by selectively removing blood constituents such as plasma, platelets and erythrocytes, comprising: a remover unit (1) having a cylindrical cross-flow chamber (3) and a filtrate chamber (4) separated by a circular filter (5), the filter (5) in fluid communication with the cross-flow chamber (3) and the filtrate chamber (4); the filter diameter is substantially the same as the diameter of the crossflow chamber; the cylindrical cross-flow chamber (3) having an inlet (6) and an outlet (7), the inlet (6) disposed adjacent to the retentate surface of the filter to introduce a sample of blood constituents comprising leukocytes into the crossflow chamber (3) in parallel to the retentate surface of the filter (5); and the outlet (7) located adjacent to the center of the filter (5) and perpendicular to the retentate surface of the filter (5), a pump (14) to pump fluid into the cross-flow chamber (3) through the inlet (6), and configured to introduce the fluid into the cylindrical cross-flow chamber at an input rate of 5 to 100 times the filtration rate; wherein this arrangement causes the flow of fluid to spiral inward toward the center of the filter creating a vortex motion within the fluid, and the filter (5) having an average pore size ranging from 3 to 8 microns such that flow of the sample across the filter (5) enriches the sample of blood constituents for leukocytes." Claims 2 to 56 are dependent or independent claims of of the categories device, method or use. They all refer back to the device according to claim 1. The appellant submitted that claim 1 meets the requirements of the EPC. VII. The appellant requested that the decision under appeal be set aside and a patent be granted on the basis of the claims according to the request filed at the oral proceedings.