--- PAGE 1 ---
WHAT IS CLAIMED IS:

l. A tangential flow filtration device for preparing a cell population enriched
for leukocytes by selectively removing blood constituents such as plasma, platelets and
erythrocytes, comprising:

a remover unit (1) having a cross-flow chamber (3), a filtrate chamber (4)
and a filter (5) disposed therebetween, the filter (5) in fluid communication with

the cross-flow chamber (3) and the filtrate chamber (4);

the cross-flow chamber (3) being cylindrical and having an inlet (6) and an
outlet (7), the inlet (6) disposed to introduce a sample of blood constituents
comprising leukocytes into the cross-flow chamber (3) and parallel to the surface
of the filter (5); and the outlet (7) located opposite the center of the filter (5) and

perpendicular to a surface of the filter (5);

the filter (5) having an average pore size ranging from | to 10 microns;
such that flow of the sample across the filter (5) enriches the sample of blood
constituents for leukocytes, and

a pump (14) to pump fluid into the cross-flow chamber (3) through the
inlet (6).

2. The device according to claim 1, further comprising:

a means for providing a predetermined input rate of the sample to the inlet of the
cross-flow chamber (6);

a means for controlling a filtration rate of filtrate through the filter (5) and into the

filtrate chamber (3).

3. The device according to claim | or claim 2, further comprising:

a recovery unit (2) comprising an inlet (6) and an outlet (7), the cross-flow
chamber (3) and the recovery unit (2) interconnected in loop format, wherein the cross-flow
chamber inlet (6) is fluid communication with the recovery unit outlet (11), and the cross-flow

chamber outlet (7) is in fluid communication with the recovery unit inlet (10).

--- PAGE 2 ---
4. The device according to claim 3, wherein the recovery unit further

comprises a sample inlet (12) and a wash inlet (13).

5. The device according to claim 4, further comprising a source of

replacement liquid in fluid communication with the wash inlet (13).

6. The device according to claim 5, wherein the replacement liquid is an

isotonic buffer or tissue culture media.

7. The device according to any of claims | to 6, further comprising a cell-

processing apparatus in fluid communication with the remover unit.

8. The device according to claim 7, wherein the cell processing apparatus

comprises beads.

9. The device according to claim 7 or 8, wherein the cell processing

apparatus comprises a means for culturing the cell population enriched for leukocytes.

10. The device according to claim 9, wherein the means for culturing

comprises:
a vessel having a first port and a second port;

a monocytic dendritic cell precursor adhering substrate, the substrate in fluid

communication with the first port and the second port;

a screen for retaining the substrate within the vessel, the screen having a pore size
sufficient to allow passage of monocytic dendritic cell precursors and dendritic cells

therethrough;
a drain line in fluid communication with the first port; and
a collection line in fluid communication with the first port.

11. The device according to claim 10, further comprising a plurality of fluid

sources in fluid communication with the first port or the second port.

--- PAGE 3 ---
12. The device according to claims 10 or 11, further comprising a sealable

tissue culture vessel adapted to aseptically receive the monocytic dendritic cell precursors.

13. The device according to claim 12, wherein the sealable tissue culture

vessel is a tissue culture bag, flask or bioreactor.

14. The device according to any of claims 11 to 13, wherein the fluid sources

comprise binding media, washing buffer and elution buffer.

15. The device according to any of claims 11 to 14, further comprising a pump

in fluid communication with the plurality of fluid sources and the first port.
16. The device according to any of claims | to 16, further comprising:

a temperature control means to maintain the substrate at a predetermined

temperature.

17. The device according to claim 16, wherein the temperature controlling

means is a heater.

18. The device according to any of claims | to 17, wherein the filter pore size

is about 3 microns to about 7 microns, or about 3 microns to about 5.5 microns.
19. The device according to any of claims | to 18, further comprising:

a source of blood constituents in fluid communication with the cross-flow

chamber inlet.

20. The device according to claim 19, wherein the source of blood

constituents is a leukopheresis device.

21. A tangential flow device according to claim 1 for enriching a sample of

blood constituents for leukocytes,

--- PAGE 4 ---
wherein the outlet is centrally disposed in an upper portion of the chamber, and
wherein the inlet is disposed above the filter (5) and introduces fluid into the cross-flow chamber

(3) substantially parallel to the filter (5);

the pump provides a predetermined input rate (14) of the sample through the

cross-flow chamber inlet (6);

and the device comprises a means for reducing a filtration rate (15) through the

filter;
wherein the filter (5) has a pore size of 3 microns to 7 microns; and

whereby the sample is enriched for leukocytes in a retentate in the cross-flow

chamber (3).

22. The device according to claim 21, wherein the predetermined filtration

rate is about one-fifth to about one one-hundredth of the predetermined input rate; and

further comprising a means for providing a predetermined concentration of blood

cells in the sample, wherein the predetermined concentration of blood cells is 107 to 10! cells

per milliliter.

23. A method for separating leukocytes from a sample of blood constituents

from a subject wherein the sample comprises leukocytes, the method comprising:

(i) introducing the sample into a remover unit (1) of the device recited in any

of claims | to 23, through an inlet (6) in the remover unit;

(ii) subjecting the sample to cross-flow substantially parallel to a filter (5)

having a pore size of about | to about 10 microns;
(iii) subjecting the fluid to filtration through the filter (5); and

(iv) selectively removing non-leukocyte blood constituents from the sample to

form a cell population enriched for leukocytes.

--- PAGE 5 ---
24. The method according to claim 23, further comprising:

preparing the sample from the subject by leukopheresis, density centrifugation,

differential lysis, filtration, or preparation of a buffy coat, for introduction in the remover unit

(1).

25. The method according to claims 23 or 24, wherein the non-leukocyte

blood constituents include plasma, platelets, and/or erythrocytes.

26. | The method according to any of claims 23 to 25, further comprising
repeating steps (1), (ii), and (iii) at least two times to form cell population enriched for

leukocytes.

27. The method according to any of claims 23 to 26, wherein the enriched cell

population comprises at least 20 % leukocytes, or at least 60% leukocytes.

28. | The method according to any of claims 23 to 27, further comprising

inducing a vortex motion of the sample in the cross-flow chamber (3).

29. | The method according to any of claims 23 to 28, further comprising

washing the cell population enriched for leukocytes with a wash solution.

30. The method according to any of claims 23 to 29, further comprising

preparing monocytic dendritic cell precursors from the cell population enriched for leukocytes.

31. | The method according to claim 30, wherein the isolation of monocytic

dendritic cell precursors comprises:

contacting a monocytic dendritic cell precursor adhering substrate with the cell

population enriched for leukocytes;

allowing monocytic dendritic cell precursors in the cell population to reversibly
adhere to the substrate to form complexes comprising monocytic dendritic cell precursors and

substrate;

--- PAGE 6 ---
separating the complexes from the non-adhering leukocytes to obtain complexes

comprising monocytic dendritic cell precursors; and

culturing the monocytic dendritic cell precursors to differentiate the precursors to

form immature or mature dendritic cells.

32. | The method according to claim 31, wherein the monocytic dendritic cell

precursors are eluted from the substrate prior to culturing or are cultured on the substrate.

33. The method according to claim 32, wherein the substrate comprises glass,

polystyrene, plastic or glass-coated polystyrene microbeads.

34. | A method for enriching a sample of blood constituents for leukocytes,

comprising:

(1) introducing the sample into a tangential flow filtration (TFF) device as

recited in any of claims | to 22;

(2) recirculating the sample through the TFF unit at a predetermined input rate
and a predetermined filtration rate, the predetermined input rate at least five times the
predetermined filtration rate; wherein the predetermined filtration rate is less than the unopposed

filtration rate for the filter; and
(3) isolating a cell population enriched for leukocytes.

35. The method according to claim 34, wherein the enriched cell population is

substantially free of non-leukocyte blood constituents.
36. The method according to claim 34, further comprising:

collecting blood from a subject and preparing the sample from the blood by

leukopheresis, density centrifugation, differential lysis, filtration, or preparation of a buffy coat.

37. | The method according to any of claims 34 to 36, wherein the non-

leukocyte blood constituents include plasma, platelets, and/or erythrocytes.

--- PAGE 7 ---
38. The method according to any of claims 34 to 37, wherein the enriched cell

population comprises at least about 20 % leukocytes, or at least about 60% leukocytes.

39. The method according to any of claims 34 to 38, wherein the sample flows

in a vortex motion in the cross-flow chamber.

40. | The method according to any of claims 34 to 39, further comprising

washing the enriched cell population with a wash solution.

41. | The method according to any of claims 34 to 40, further comprising

preparing dendritic cells from the enriched cell population.

42. | The method according to claim 41, wherein the dendritic cells are

prepared by:

contacting a monocytic dendritic cell precursor adhering substrate with the

enriched cell population;

allowing monocytic dendritic cell precursors in the enriched cell population to
reversibly adhere to the substrate to form complexes comprising monocytic dendritic cell

precursors and substrate;

separating the complexes from the non-adhering leukocytes to obtain complexes

comprising monocytic dendritic cell precursors; and

culturing the monocytic dendritic cell precursors to differentiate the precursors to

form immature or mature dendritic cells.

43. | The method according to claim 42, wherein the substrate comprises glass,

polystyrene, plastic or glass-coated polystyrene microbeads.

44. The method according to claims 42 or 43, further comprising isolating the

immature or mature dendritic cells.

45. | The method according to claim 38, wherein the monocytes are cultured

with cytokines that promote the differentiation of monocytes into dendritic cells.

--- PAGE 8 ---
46. The method according to claim 45, wherein the cytokines are GM-CSF,
GM-CSF and IL-4.

47. | The method according to claims 45 or 46, wherein the dendritic cells are

matured to mature dendritic cells.

48. | The method according to claim 46, wherein the dendritic cells are cultured
with an antigen under conditions conducive for processing the antigen to form antigen loaded

dendritic cells.

49. | The method according to any of claims 34 to 48, wherein the filter has a

pore size of 3 to 5.5 microns.

50. The method according to claim 49, wherein the leukocytes comprise

CD34" cells.

51. | The method according to claims 49 or 50, wherein the sample of blood

constituents is from a donor that has been treated with at least one stem cell mobilizing agent.

52. | The method according to claim 51, wherein the stem cell mobilizing agent

is G-CSF or cyclophosphamide.

53. | The method according to any of claims 49 to 52, further comprising

enriching the leukocytes for the CD34* cells.

54. | The method according to claim 53, wherein the enrichment of leukocytes

for the CD34" cells comprises using an anti-CD34 antibody conjugated to magnetic beads.

55. | The method according to any of claims 49 to 54, further comprising

expanding the CD34* cells ex vivo.

56. | The method according to any of claims 49 to 52, further comprising
preparing monocyte-derived pluripotent stem cells from the cell population enriched for

leukocytes.

--- PAGE 9 ---
57. The method according to claim 56, further comprising inducing

differentiation of a progenitor or stem cell.

58. | The method according to claim 49, further comprising inducing

transdifferentiation of a differentiated cell.