The applicant (appellant) appealed against the decision of the Examining Division refusing European patent application No. 99923793.6, which was filed as international application PCT/IB99/01089 and published as WO 99/67698. II. The Examining Division decided that a main request and first and second auxiliary requests complied neither with Article 123(2) EPC nor with Articles 52(1) and 56 EPC. The objections of lack of inventive step were based on the following document: D1:  Bhatia S.: "Selection of Search Terms Based on User Profile", Proceedings of the 1992 ACM/SIGAPP Symposium on Applied Computing: Technological Challenges of the 1990s, pp. 224-233, 1992. III. With the statement of grounds of appeal, the appellant filed a main request and first and second auxiliary requests identical to those considered in the decision under appeal. IV. In a communication accompanying a summons to oral proceedings, the Board expressed the preliminary view that none of the requests complied with Article 123(2) EPC and that the subject-matter of claim 1 of each request lacked inventive step in view of document D1. V. With a letter dated 28 May 2015, the appellant replaced its substantive requests with a main request and first to fifth auxiliary requests. The main request, second auxiliary request and fifth auxiliary request were identical to the previous main request, first auxiliary request and second auxiliary request, respectively. VI. In the course of oral proceedings held on 3 July 2015, the appellant submitted a new auxiliary request 1A. At the end of the proceedings, the chairman pronounced the Board's decision. VII. The appellant requested that the decision under appeal be set aside and that a patent be granted on the basis of the claims of the main request or, in the alternative, on the basis of the claims of one of the first auxiliary request, auxiliary request 1A, and the second to fifth auxiliary requests. VIII. Claim 1 of the main request reads as follows: "A method of enabling a user to query an electronic document base, the method comprising the steps of: - allowing a user to enter query words; - generating one or more additional keywords based on a profile of the user; and - searching in an electronic document base for documents that match the combination of query words and additional keywords, characterized by further comprising the steps of: - generating a set of concept keywords based on the results of the search; and - storing the set of concept keywords in a dynamic part of the profile of the user." IX. Claim 1 of the first auxiliary request reads as follows: "A method of enabling a user to query an electronic document base, the method comprising the steps of: - allowing a user to enter query words representing a first query; - generating one or more additional keywords based on the entered query words and a static part of a profile of the user, the static part of the profile of the user comprising data which is indicative of the user's long-term interests; - searching in an electronic document base for documents that match the combination of query words and additional keywords; - returning results of the search to the user; characterized by further comprising the steps of: - generating a set of concept keywords based on the results of the search; - storing the set of concept keywords in a dynamic part of the profile of the user; and - when the user starts a second query by entering one or more new query words, also using the dynamic part of the profile when generating one or more additional keywords for the second query." X. Claim 1 of auxiliary request 1A is identical to claim 1 of the first auxiliary request. XI. Claim 1 of the second auxiliary request differs from claim 1 of the main request in that its characterising part reads as follows: "- generating a set of concept keywords based on the results of the search; - storing the set of concept keywords in a dynamic part of the profile of the user; - detecting a context shift when the distance between a newly entered query word and the concept keywords stored in the dynamic part of the profile of the user is sufficiently large; and - disregarding said concept keywords stored in the dynamic part of the profile of the user upon detecting said context shift." XII. Claim 1 of the third auxiliary request differs from claim 1 of the first auxiliary request in the removal of the word "and" from the end of the penultimate step and in the addition of the following text: "- detecting a context shift when the degree of overlap between i) the one or more newly entered query words and ii) the combination of the first query and the additional keywords generated for the first query, is insufficiently large; and - when generating the one or more additional keywords for the second query, disregarding concept keywords stored in the dynamic part of the profile of the user that are associated with the search results of the first query upon detecting said context shift." XIII. Claim 1 of the fourth auxiliary request differs from claim 1 of the third auxiliary request in that "A method ... an electronic document base" is followed by "comprising documents spanning an information space" and that the following text is inserted after "detecting a context shift ... is insufficiently large": "so as to determine that the second query pertains to a different part of the electronic document database's information space than the first query" XIV. Claim 1 of the fifth auxiliary request differs from claim 1 of the second auxiliary request in the insertion of the following text after "detecting a context shift ... is sufficiently large": ", said distance being obtained by computing a degree of overlap between successive query terms"