--- PAGE 1 ---
30

MAIN REQUEST

CLAIMS

1. A method for providing transaction services in an ATM (3) or Kiosk, the ATM (3) or
Kiosk being operable to read a smart card and/or bank card and further comprising a
plurality of hardware devices, with the capabilities of at ieast one of the hardware devices
being non-identical between more than one ATM (3) or Kiosk across a network of ATMs (3,
4) or Kiosks, said ATM (3) or Kiosk being controlled by one or more software applications
(10), and comprising an operating system (12); said method characterized in that the one or
more software applications (10) interact with said hardware devices through a functional
interface of middleware software (13) comprising transaction objects, wherein said functional
interface is hardware independent but provides functionality which is implemented in a
manner adapted to the particular capabilities of the particular hardware devices which are

provided.

2. A method for providing transaction services according to Claim 1 wherein the
middleware software (13) comprises a series of transaction objects and controls for standard
device functions, said transaction objects being independent of the interface between a user
and the ATM or Kiosk, the interface between the user and the ATM or Kiosk being

customisabie.

3. A method for providing transaction services according to Claim 2 wherein controls

implement a capabilities interface.

4. A methed for providing transaction services according to Claim 2 or Claim 3 wherein
controis have a mode in which events are queued up and delivered to the software

application (1G} on demand.

5. A method for providing transaction services according to any of Claims 2 to 4
wherein controls are adapted to run on the ATM (3) or Kiosk even when supported hardware

devices are not present.

6. A method for providing transaction services according to any preceding Claim
wherein the middleware software (13) uses one or more open standards for interacting with
different hardware systems.

MAIN REQUEST

§2059167-1-THARGREAVES

--- PAGE 2 ---
31

7. A method for providing transaction services according to any preceding Claim

wherein all errors and transgressions are asserted by the middleware software (13).

8. A method for providing transaction services according to any preceding Claim

wherein one or more software applications (10) are hosted in a web browser (11).

9. A method for providing transaction services according to Claim 8 wherein the use of

a web browser (11) provides support for software distribution and network connections.

10. A method for providing transaction services according to Claim 8 or Claim 9 wherein
an additional browser frame is provided which contains the device controls required to detect

events which must be dealt with immediately they occur.

11. A method for providing transaction services according to any preceding Claim
wherein middleware software (13) comprises a series of COM components with a scriptable

ActiveXx® interface or a series of Javabeans™ components with a scriptable interface.

12. A method for providing transaction services according to any preceding Claim
wherein middleware software (13) allows or disallows access to particular web sites

according to a rule database.

13. A method for providing transaction services according to any preceding Claim
wherein the ATM (3) or Kiosk is adapted to allow the software applications (10) and

middleware (13) to be altered across a network by an authority.

14. A method for providing transaction services according to any preceding Claim
wherein the ATM (3) or Kiosk can communicate information about their status to a remote

monitoring station across a network (5).

15. A computer program comprising program instructions for causing a computer to

perform the method of any of Claims 1 to 14.

16. An ATM (8) or Kiosk operable to read a smart card and/or bank card and further
comprising a plurality of hardware devices with the capabilities of at least one of the
hardware devices being non-identical between more than one ATM (3) or Kiosk in a network
of ATMs (3, 4) or Kiosks, said ATM (3) or Kiosk being controlled by one or more software

applications (10}, and an operating system (12} which controls and receives information from

MAIN REQUEST

52059167-1-THARGREAVES

--- PAGE 3 ---
32

said hardware devices through a functional interface of middleware software (13) comprising
transaction objects, wherein said functional interface is hardware independent but provides
functionality which is implemented in a manner adapted to the particular hardware

capabilities of the particular hardware devices which are provided.

17. An ATM or Kiosk according to Claim 16 wherein middleware software (13)
comprises a series of transaction objects and controls for standard device functions, the
transaction objects being independent of the interface between a user and the ATM (3) or
Kiosk, the interface between the user and the ATM (3) or Kiosk being customisable.

18. An ATM or Kiosk according to Claim 17 wherein controls implement a capabilities

interface.

19. An ATM or Kiosk according to Claim 17 or Claim 18 wherein controls are adapted to

run on the ATM (3) or Kiosk even when supported hardware devices are not present.

20. An ATM or Kiosk according to any of Claims 16 to 19 wherein the middleware
software (13) uses one or more open standards for interacting with different hardware

systems.

21. © An ATM or Kiosk according to any of Claims 16 to 20 wherein one or more software

applications (10) are hosted in a web browser.

22. An ATM or Kiosk according to Claim 21 wherein the use of a web browser (11)

provides support for software distribution and network connections.

23. An ATM or Kiosk according to Claim 21 or 22, wherein middleware software (13)

allows or disallows access to particular web sites according to a rule database.

24. An ATM or Kiosk according to any of Claims 16 to 23 wherein middieware software
(13) comprises a series of COM components with a scriptable ActiveX® interface or a series

of Javabeans™ components with a scriptable interface.

25. An ATM or Kiosk according to any of Claims 16 to 24 wherein the ATM (3) or Kiosk is
adapted to allow the software applications (10) and middleware (13) to be altered across a

network by an authority.

MAIN REQUEST

§2059167-1-THARGREAVES

--- PAGE 4 ---
33

26. An ATM or Kiosk according to any of Claims 16 to 25 wherein the ATM or Kiosk can

communicate information about their status to a remote monitoring station across a network

(5).

af. A network comprising an ATM or Kiosk according to any of Claims 16 to 26, one or

more networking means and one or more application servers,

28. An Extranet formed by combining a plurality of networks of ATMs (3) or Kiosks

according to Claim 27.

29. An Extranet according to Claim 28 provided with a security mechanism which limits

the hardware functionality available to individual software applications.
30. A computer program comprising program instructions which, when loaded into a

computer of an ATM (3) or Kiosk, cause said ATM or Kiosk to be configured as the ATM (3)
or Kiosk of any of Claims 16 to 26.

MAIN REQUEST

52059167-1-THARGREAVES