TITLE:
Programming interface for a smart card kiosk

TYPE:
World International Patent Organisation

ABSTRACT:
A kiosk for use with smart cards includes a plurality of software services (200) accessible by one or more application programs executing in the kiosk through an application programming interface. The software services include operator interface functions (201), card data access functions (203), smart card stored value functions (204), and security functions (205). Various applications may be provided in the kiosk including applications for information access, card revalue operations, merchant ordering, and content delivery services. An automatic update feature (207) may be used to update data and code in the kiosk, and functions on smart cards which are inserted into the kiosk.

CLAIMS:
1 A kiosk for use in a system employing a plurality of smart cards, comprising. a display device; a network interface for communicating with a server computer, a smart card reader for reading one of the plurahty of smart cards; and a computer and associated memory coupled to the display device, the smart card reader, and the network interface, the computer programmed to provide at least one application program coupled to a plurahty of application level services adapted to provide functions for application service providers, the application level services including a smart card data access function for retrieving data on a smart card inserted into the smart card reader; and an operator interface operable to provide window display functions on the display device in accordance with steps taken by the one application program
2 The kiosk according to claim 1 , wherein the application level services comprise a stored value debit function operable to decrement value stored on a smart card inserted into the smart card reader in accordance with steps taken by the application program.
3 The kiosk according to claim 1 , wherein the computer is further programmed to provide an automatic update function which, upon insertion of one of the smaπ cards, communicates with the server computer to determine whether any capabilities on the inseπed smaπ card should be updated and, in response thereto, updates capabilities on the one inseπed smaπ card.
4 The kiosk according to claim 3, wherein the update disables a capability previously enabled on the inseπed smaπ card.
5 The kiosk according to claim 3, wherein the update enables a capability not previously enabled on the mseπed smaπ card
6. The kiosk according to claim 1, wherein the computer is fuπher programmed to automatically retrieve a usage counter from a smaπ card inseπed into the card reader and transmit the usage counter to the server computer.
7. The kiosk according to claim 1, wherein the computer is fuπher programmed to display an "attract" screen in an idle mode and which, when performing an automatic update operation involving information transmitted from the computer server, disables use of the one application program.
8. The kiosk according to claim 1, wherein the one application program comprises a merchant ordering application which communicates with the computer server in order to provide a service offered by a merchant.
9. The kiosk according to claim 1, wherein the one application program comprises an on-demand printing application which accepts an order for a printing service provided by a merchant.
10. The kiosk according to claim 1, wherein the operator interface comprises a plurality of predefined display templates.
11. The kiosk according to claim 1, wherein the computer is fuπher programmed to carry out an on-line debit transaction with a user's bank account.
12. The kiosk according to claim 1 , wherein the application level services fuπher provide card-level independence from paπicular types of smaπ cards inseπed into the kiosk.
13. The kiosk according to claim 1, wherein the application level services comprise a group of security functions for performing security related operations with a smaπ card inserted into the kiosk.
14. An application programming interface adapted to provide functions for an application program executing on a smaπ card kiosk, comprising: an operator interface comprising window functions operable to manipulate display images and a plurality of templates for displaying preformed images; a plurality of card data access services operable to retrieve data from a smaπ card inseπed into the smaπ card kiosk; a plurality of stored value functions operable to increase and decrease value stored on a smaπ card inseπed into the smaπ card kiosk; a plurality of security functions operable to encrypt and decrypt data during communication with a smaπ card inseπed into the smart card kiosk; and a PIN pad function operable to retrieve a PIN entered at the kiosk.
15. The application programming interface according to claim 14, further comprising c general information application, coupled to the application programming interface, for providing general information on a display at the kiosk, wherein the general information is periodically updated via a server coupled to the kiosk.
16. The application programming interface according to claim 15, wherein the general information application displays a cafeteria menu.
17. The application programming interface according to claim 15, wherein the general information application displays maps.
18. The application programming interface according to claim 14, further comprising a merchant ordering application, coupled to the application programming interface, which uses the operator interface for displaying a merchant menu comprising one or more products, and uses one of the stored value functions to decrement value on a smart card inseπed into the kiosk prior to authorizing a transaction to provide the one or more products.
19. A kiosk comprising a computer, a display unit, a smaπ card reader, and a network interface, wherein the computer is programmed to provide a plurality of kiosk applications and a plurality of application-level services, wherein the application-level services comprises an operator interface for performing window functions on the display unit, a plurality of card data access functions for interfacing with a smart card inserted into the smart card reader, and an automatic update function for automatically updating, via the network interface, functions on a smart card inserted into the card reader, and wherein the plurality of kiosk applications comprises a general information application for providing information received via the network interface on the display unit without inserting a smart card into the smart card reader, and a merchant ordering application for effecting payment for one or more products from a menu displayed on the display unit upon insertion of a smart card into the smaπ card reader.
20. The kiosk according to claim 19, fuπher comprising a content delivery application for effecting payment for information specified by a user upon inseπion of a smaπ card into the smaπ card reader.
21. The kiosk according to claim 19, further comprising an on-demand printing application for effecting payment for a printing job specified by a user upon inseπion of a smaπ card into the smaπ card reader