--- PAGE 1 ---
10

15,

20

25

30

35

MAIN REQUEST
CLAIMS

1. Asystem for reporting on integrity of a wireless communication link within a healthcare
facility comprising: . .

a wireless remote device within the healthcare facility having a message indicator
responsive to status information transmitted over the wireless communication link, the
status information representative of a signal generated by a medication treatment
application device, wherein the message indicator comprises at t least one of an audible
alarm and a visual display; , ,

software installed on the wireless remote device ‘having a time-out ‘output, wherein the .
time-out output indicates loss of the wireless communication link, wherein when the time-
out output indicates loss of the wireless communication link, the wireless remote device.
provides a notification that data based upon the signal is not current; and, |

wherein the audible alarm produces an audible sound in response to the time-out

_ output, and/or wherein an-icon responsive to the time-out output is provided on the visual

display.

2. The system of claim 1 further comprising a module associated with the medication
treatment application device, the module having the status information output responsive

to the signal output generated by the medication treatment application device.

3. The system of claim 2 wherein the association between the module and the medication

treatment application device results in at least some data within the status information
output passing through the module:

4. The system of claim 1 wherein the medication treatment application device is an infusion

pump for administering an infusion to a patient

5. The system of claim 1 wherein the signal output generated by the medication treatment

device is a notification.
6. The system of claim 5 wherein the notification comprises data relating to at least one of
an alarm condition, an alert condition, an infusion volume rate and a time remaining before

an infusion bag is emptied.

7. The system of claim 1 wherein the wireless remote device is a personal digital assistant.

--- PAGE 2 ---
MAIN REQUEST

8. The system of claim 1 wherein the wireless communication link operates within a radio

frequency.