Title: Method of protecting software recorded by a supplier on a portable magnetic holder

Abstract: The subject of the invention is a method of protecting software recorded by a supplier on a portable magnetic medium. According to the method, the software supplier records a copy of software on a non-duplicable mother disk (DM) and distributes a mother disk (DM) for each copy of software acquired by a user. The software stored on a mother disk (DM) is not assigned to a specific machine. The user transfers the software from the mother floppy disk to a duplicable child floppy disk (DF) with reset of the mother floppy disk. The software stored on the daughter diskette is assigned to a specific machine of the user. The invention applies in particular in the case where a supplier aims for a wide distribution of its software.

Type: EPO Patent

Claims: 

1. Method for protecting software distributed by a supplier to users having at least one information processing machine on which this software can be loaded and executed, characterized in that it consists: a) At the supplier level to record a copy of this software on a first portable magnetic medium such as a floppy disk called the mother floppy disk, this software not being assigned to a specific machine of the user, - make this mother disk non-duplicable, - and to distribute a mother floppy disk for each copy of software acquired by a user, b) At user level: - transfer the copy of software stored on a mother disk to a second duplicable magnetic medium, - to assign this copy of software stored on this second medium to a specific machine of the user, - and to reset the mother disk to zero so that it cannot give birth to another copy of software executable on another machine. 2. Method according to claim 1, characterized in that it consists in creating any mother diskette in a non-standard format to make it non-duplicable. 3. Method according to claim 1 or 2, characterized in that any aforementioned second support is created according to a standard format, which has the effect of making it duplicable. 4. Method according to claim 3, characterized in that it consists in authorizing the duplication of the aforementioned second support by any machine of the user, but only the aforementioned determined machine or operating machine of the user can execute any copy of software duplicated from the second medium. 5. Method according to one of the preceding claims, characterized in that the transformation of mother floppy disk - second support is carried out by a self-loading utility from the mother floppy disk. 6. Method according to one of the preceding claims, characterized in that it consists, in order to assign any aforementioned second support to the aforementioned operating machine, to personalize the second support with an identifier specific to the operating machine, this non-modifiable identifier being either readable in a component of the machine if this operation is carried out from the operating machine, or entered from the outside when this operation is carried out on a machine other than the operating machine. 7. Method according to claim 6, characterized in that it consists in registering the identifier of a machine in a hardware component either pluggable into the machine, or integrated into the latter during manufacture. 8. Method according to one of the preceding claims, characterized in that it consists in authorizing the operation of a daughter diskette on several machines by implementing a utility making it possible to group together on the same daughter diskette several copies of affected software. to these different machines. 9. Method according to one of claims 1 to 8, characterized in that it consists in the case of distribution of additional software to an initial software already stored on a second medium, to record this additional software and a self-loading utility on a mother disk, to transfer this software to the aforementioned second medium by executing said utility and to reset the mother floppy. 10. Method according to one of claims 1 to 9, characterized in that it consists in the case of the dissemination of a new version of software intended to replace software already transferred to a second medium, to be recorded on a mother floppy this new version of software and a self-loading utility, to replace the software memorized on the second support by the new version of the software following the execution of said utility and to reset the mother floppy. 11. Method according to one of the preceding claims, characterized in that it consists in encrypting the software on the aforementioned mother diskette, the encryption key being for example constituted by the name of the software and the serial number of the diskette, to constitute in the operating machine a file of all the names of the software intended to be executed by this machine, this file containing for each software name the encryption key of the software, the name of the software and the key being themselves encrypted with a key consisting of the identifier of the aforementioned operating machine. 12. Method according to claim 11, characterized in that it consists, during a request for loading software on a machine, to decrypt said file from the identifier of the operating machine, to be determined if the name of the requested software is indeed contained in this file, and to decrypt this software using the aforementioned encryption key to obtain a loadable and executable software on the operating machine.