TITLE:
Electronic game device, its method and storage medium

TYPE:
Japanese Patent

ABSTRACT:
(57) [Summary] A game is directly operated in an electronic game device. A touch panel is provided on a display screen for displaying a game screen, and the game screen is directly operated to change a game object, so that the object can be directly operated and the progress of the game can be executed on the screen. . Therefore, the pleasure of the game is increased, and the game can be easily and accurately advanced.

CLAIMS:
A display screen for displaying a game screen; a touch panel provided on the display screen for detecting a contact position; changing a game object displayed on the display screen according to a detection position of the touch panel. An electronic game device comprising: 2. The electronic game device according to claim 1, wherein the game processing unit changes an operation of the object according to a detection position of the touch panel. 3. The electronic game device according to claim 2, wherein the game processing unit detects a contact speed from successive detection positions of the touch panel and changes the speed of the object. 4. The electronic game device according to claim 2, wherein the game processing unit changes a position of the object according to a detection position of the touch panel. 5. The electronic game device according to claim 1, wherein the game processing unit changes the object according to a detection position of the touch panel and the number of times of contact. 6. An input unit for detecting a contact position of an object, detecting that the object has contacted the input unit while moving, and performing a predetermined calculation using a plurality of detected position coordinates; An electronic game device comprising: a game processing unit used as game operation information. 7. The game processing unit calculates a moving speed from a transition of the detected position coordinates,
7. The electronic game device according to claim 6, wherein the calculated moving speed is used as operation information of the game. 8. The game processing unit calculates a moving direction from a transition of the detected position coordinates,
8. The electronic game device according to claim 6, wherein the calculated moving direction is used as operation information of the game. 9. The game processing unit according to claim 7, wherein the game processing unit determines whether the calculated moving speed has reached a predetermined value, and uses the determination result as operation information of the game. Electronic game device. 10. The game processing unit determines whether or not the calculated displacement amount in the movement direction has reached a predetermined value, and uses the determination result as operation information of the game. Item 10. The electronic game device according to item 8. 11. The game processing unit calculates a distance moved within a predetermined time from a point in time when the calculated moving speed becomes zero, and uses the calculated distance as operation information of the game. The electronic game device according to claim 7, wherein: 12. An input means for detecting a contact position of an object, and detecting that the object has contacted the input means while moving, and determining a moving speed and a moving direction from a transition of a plurality of detected position coordinates. And a game processing unit that uses the calculated moving speed to control the speed of the game object and uses the detected moving direction to control the moving direction of the object. 13. A step of detecting a contact position on the display screen from a touch panel provided on a display screen for displaying a game screen, and a game object displayed on the display screen according to the detected position on the touch panel. And a game processing step of changing the electronic game. 14. The electronic game method according to claim 13, wherein the game processing step changes an operation of the object according to a detection position of the touch panel. 15. The electronic game method according to claim 14, wherein in the game processing step, a contact speed is detected from successive detection positions of the touch panel, and the speed of the object is changed. 16. The electronic game method according to claim 14, wherein in the game processing step, the position of the object is changed according to a detection position of the touch panel. 17. The game processing step, wherein the object is changed according to a detection position of the touch panel and a number of times of contact.
Electronic game method. 18. An input step of detecting a contact position of an object by an input means, and detecting that the object has contacted the input means while moving, and performing a predetermined calculation using a plurality of detected position coordinates. And a game processing step of using the information as operation information of the game. 19. The game processing step includes: calculating a moving speed from a transition of the detected position coordinates;
The electronic game method according to claim 18, wherein the calculated moving speed is used as operation information of the game. 20. The game processing step comprising: calculating a moving direction from a transition of the detected position coordinates;
20. The electronic game method according to claim 18, wherein the calculated moving direction is used as operation information of the game. 21. The game processing method according to claim 19, wherein in the game processing step, it is determined whether the calculated moving speed has reached a predetermined value, and the determination result is used as operation information of the game. Electronic game method. 22. The game processing step, wherein it is determined whether or not the calculated displacement in the moving direction has reached a predetermined value, and the determination result is used as operation information of the game. Item 20. The electronic game method according to Item 20. 23. The game processing step includes calculating a distance moved within a predetermined time from a point in time when the calculated moving speed becomes zero, and using the calculated distance as operation information of the game. 20. The electronic game method according to claim 19, wherein: 24. An inputting step of detecting a contact position of an object by an inputting means, and detecting that the object has contacted the inputting means while moving, and determining a moving speed and Calculating a moving direction, using the calculated moving speed for speed control of a game object, and using the detected moving direction for moving direction control of the object. Game method. 25. A program for detecting a contact position on the display screen from a touch panel provided on a display screen for displaying a game screen, and a game object displayed on the display screen according to the detected position on the touch panel. A storage medium storing a game processing program for changing the game processing program.