The appeal lies against the decision of the examining division, with reasons dated 30 September 2011, to refuse European patent application No. 03783831.5 for lack of an inventive step in view of, in particular, docu­ments D3:  EP 0 442 041 A2, D4:  EP 0 794 492 A2, and D5:  Verschueren A C et al., "Arbitration in a multi-processor to multi-coprocessor connection switch", Proc. of ProRISC 1999, 10th IEEE Annual Workshop on Circuits and Sys­tems and Signal Processing, STW, Technology Foundation, Utrecht, The Nether­lands, 1999, pages 563-567. In its summons to oral proceedings, the exami­ning division had referred to a further relevant document: D6:  KR 2002 0020186 (published 14 March 2002)  II. A notice of appeal was received on 8 December 2011, the appeal fee being paid on the same day. A statement of grounds of appeal was received on 10 February 2012. The appellant requested that the decision under appeal be set aside and that a patent be granted based on the claims according to the main request presently on file or, alterna­tively, according to claims according to one of the first to fifth auxiliary requests filed with the grounds of appeal. The further application documents on file are as follows: description, pages 5-53       as originally filed 1-4, 54    as received with letter of 14 January 2009 drawings, sheets 1/29-29/29 as originally filed A resumé of and a statement by the inventor Daniel O'Sullivan was attached to the grounds of appeal and it was requested that Mr. O'Sullivan be allowed to speak at the oral proceedings in the present case. III. With its summons to oral proceedings, the board informed the appellant of its preliminary opinion, according to which the main request lacked clarity and an inventive step, Articles 84 and 56 EPC 1973, and the first auxil­ia­ry request was deficient under Articles 123(2) EPC and 84 EPC 1973, but the second and third auxiliary requests appeared to be allowable. The board however considered itself barred from ordering the grant of a patent, since the examining di­vision had stated that the claimed sub­ject matter had not been searched. The board there­fore indicated that it was minded to remit the case for fur­ther prosecution based on either the second or the third auxiliary request. IV. In response to the summons, the appellant withdrew the main and first auxiliary requests and requested that the application be remitted to the department of first in­stance based on the second auxiliary request. In the ab­sence of any statement to the contrary, the board un­der­stands that the third to fifth auxiliary requests are maintained. V. The oral proceedings were therefore cancelled. VI. The sole independent claim 1 of the now highest-ranking second auxiliary request reads as follows: "1. A method of execution-instruction delegation among multiple elemental processing resources of at least two different types, the multiple elemental processing resources comprising two or more elemental processing resources of a first type each sharing two or more elemental processing resources of a second type with at least one other of the two or more processing resources of the first type, and multiple program threads stored in memory accessible by the multiple elemental processing resources of the first type, the elemental processing resources of the first type each being configured to receive a program instruction from a thread in memory, the elemental processing resources of the second type having pipelines associated therewith and being configured to only receive and execute instructions that were delegated to their pipeline for execution by processing resources of the first type and by being shared by at least two elemental processing resources of the first type, the method comprising: obtaining an execution instruction from the thread, wherein the execution instruction is obtained at one of the at least two elemental processing resources of the first type; determining whether an operation-code within the execution instruction is incapable of being executed by the one elemental processing resource of the first type and thus should be delegated to an other [sic] elemental processing resource of the second type shared by the at least two processing resources of the first type; executing the execution instruction within the first elemental processing resources of the first type, if the operation-code within the execution instruction should not be delegated to any other elemental processing resource; if the execution instruction should be delegated, providing a specific elemental processing resource of the first type access to a specific elemental processing resource of the second type that it shares with another of the elemental processing resources of the first type based upon an arbitration request by the specific elemental processing resource of the first type; and routing the execution instruction and an identifier for the specific elemental processing resource of the first  further comprising causing the delegating processing resource to sleep, and broadcasting the result of executing the delegated instruction to each of the plurality of processing resources of the first type on shared result buses 144, 146, 148, wherein each sleeping processing resource is arranged to look at the shared result buses for its identifier, and when a match is detected, the processing resource wakes up from sleep to process the broadcast result." VII. In view of the board's decision, the wording of the claims according to the third to fifth requests maintained by the appellant are immaterial.