--- PAGE 1 ---
10

15

20

25

30

Main Request

Claims

1. A method of execution-instruction delegation among multiple elemental
processing resources of at least two different types, the multiple elemental
processing resources comprising two or more elemental processing resources of a
first type each sharing two or more elemental processing resources of a second type
with at least one other of the two or more processing resources of the first type,
and multiple program threads stored in memory accessible by the multiple elemental
processing resources of the first type, the elemental processing resources of the first
type each being configured to receive a program instruction from a thread in
memory, the elemental processing resources of the second type having pipelines
associated therewith and being configured to only receive and execute instructions
that were delegated to their pipeline for execution by processing resources of the
first type and by being shared by at least two elemental processing resources of the
first type, the method comprising:

obtaining an execution instruction from the thread, wherein the execution
instruction is obtained at one of the at least two elemental processing resources of
the first type;

determining whether an operation-code within the execution instruction is
incapable of being executed by the one elemental processing resource of the first
type and thus should be delegated to an other elemental processing resource of the
second type shared by the at least two processing resources of the first type;

executing the execution instruction within the first elemental processing
resources of the first type, 1f the operation-code within the execution instruction
should not be delegated to any other elemental processing resource;

if the execution instruction should be delegated, providing a specific
elemental processing resource of the first type access to a specific elemental
processing resource of the second type that it shares with another of the elemental
processing resources of the first type based upon an arbitration request by the

specific elemental processing resource of the first type; and

--- PAGE 2 ---
10

15

20

25

30

routing the execution instruction and an identifier for the specific elemental
processing resource of the first type that delegated the execution instruction to a
pipeline of the shared specific elemental processing resource of the second type that
is capable of executing the operation code, if the operation-code within the

execution instruction is to be delegated.

2. The method of claim 1, wherein the method is completed within a single

processing cycle.

3. The method of any one of the preceding claims, wherein the operation-code

indicates a type of elemental processing resource on which to execute.

4. The method of claim 1, wherein the at least two elemental processing
resources of the first type are integer processing units (102, 104, 106, 108), and the
other elemental processing resource of a second type is a mathematical processing
unit (114), a memory management unit, a vector processing unit, a digital signal
processing unit, a graphics processing unit, an input/output controller processing

unit, of an execution-instruction processing cache.

5. A method according to claim 4, wherein:

the obtained execution instruction is a first one of multiple execution-
instructions from a thread received and executed at a first one of the elemental
processing resources of the first type; and

a second execution instruction from the thread cannot be processed by the
first elemental processing resource of the first-type;

the method comprising:

maintaining the thread in the first elemental processing resource of the first
type in a sleep state until an indicator that the second execution instruction has

been processed 1s returned from the other elemental processing resource.

6. The method of claim 1, further comprising routing the execution instruction

through an execution-instruction signal router (110).

--- PAGE 3 ---
10

15

20

25

30

7. The method of claim 6, wherein the execution-instruction signal router (110)

is a cross-point switch.

8. The method of claim 1, wherein the first specific elemental processing
resource of the first type, executing a first individual thread sleeps while the specific
elemental processing resource of the second type executes delegated execution-

instructions from the first individual thread.

9. The method of any one of the preceding claims, further comprising,
generating an execution-instruction signal, wherein the execution-instruction signal
causes at least one of the elemental processing resources dynamically to turn on
and off to maintain a desired level of power draw while maximizing processing

throughput.

10. The method of claim 1 further comprising generating an execution-
instruction signal, wherein the execution-instruction signal causes at least one of the

elemental processing resources to shut off while idling.

11. The method of claim 1 further comprising generating an execution-
instruction signal, wherein the execution-instruction signal causes at least one of the
elemental processing resources to turn on when execution-instruction signal

processing is required.

12. The method of claim 1, wherein the elemental processing resources are

communicatively disposed on a same die.

13. The method of claim 12, wherein an execution-instruction signal router (110)

is on the same die with the elemental processing resources.

14. | Asystem for execution-instruction delegation between elemental processing
resources of at least two different types, comprising:
a multithreaded configuration including at least two elemental processing

resources of a first type and at least one elemental processing resource of a second

--- PAGE 4 ---
10

15

20

25

type, the at least one elemental processing resource of the second type having an
input pipeline for only receiving delegated instructions from the elemental
processing resources of the first type, the elemental processing resources of the
second type being different from, and shared by, the elemental processing resources
of the first type;

means to obtain an execution instruction from a thread of a multithreaded
program stored in a memory, wherein the execution instruction is obtained at one
of at least two elemental processing resources of the first type;

means to determine whether an operation-code within the execution
instruction from the thread should be delegated to a pipeline of an other elemental
processing resource of the second type because 1s cannot be executed by the
elemental processing resource of the first type;

means to execute the execution instruction from the thread within the
elemental processing resources of the first type, if the operation-code within the
execution instruction should not be delegated;

means to route the execution instruction from the thread to a pipeline of the
other elemental processing resource of the second type, if the operation-code within
the execution instruction is for the other processing resource;

means to cause the delegating elemental processing resource of the first type
to sleep until the elemental processing resource of the second type has indicated it
has completed execution of the delegated execution instruction from the pipeline
and to cause the elemental processing resource of the first type to wake when
execution of the delegated execution instruction by the elemental processing
resource of the second type 1s complete; and

means to return a result of executing the delegated execution to the

delegating elemental processing resource of the first type.