TITLE:
Method and apparatus for recording on a record carrier a table of contents identifying all the recorded data signals

TYPE:
US Patent

ABSTRACT:
A series of data signals are recorded in a track on a record carrier, and address information indicating the location thereon of each data signal is stored in a temporary table of contents in the recording apparatus after recording each such signal. After the last data signal of the series has been recorded, a final table of contents is then generated from the temporary table of contents and is recorded in the lead-in portion of the track on the record carrier.

CLAIMS:
1. A method of recording a series of data signals on a record carrier of an inscribable type, characterized in that after recording of a data signal address information indicating the position of said data signal on the record carrier is stored in a temporary table of contents, a final table of contents in the form of a final address information signal being recorded after the last data signal of the series has been recorded on the record carrier, which final table of contents is derived from the temporary table of contents.
2. A method as claimed in claim 1, characterized in that the temporary table of contents is stored in a memory which forms part of a recording apparatus for recording the data signals.
3. A method as claimed in claim 1, characterized in that the temporary table of contents, in the form of a temporary address information signal, is recorded on the record carrier outside the area intended for recording the data signals and the final address information signal.
4. A method as claimed in claim 1, characterized in that the temporary table of contents is recorded on the record carrier as a temporary address information signal, the relationship between the temporary address information signal and the information represented thereby deviating from the relationship between said other recorded signals and the information represented by said other signals.
5. A method as claimed in claim 4, characterized in that the data signals and the final address information signal comprise first error-detection signals which exhibit a first relationship with the signals in which they are comprised, the temporary address information signal comprises second error-detection signals which exhibit a second relationship with the signal in which they are comprised, and the first and the second relationship are different.
6. A method as claimed in claim 5, characterized in that the data signals and the final address information signal are recorded in conformity with a CD-standard for read-only record carriers.
7. A method as claimed in claim 6, characterized in that the temporary address information signal is recorded at the beginning of the lead-in track defined by the CD-standard.
8. Apparatus for recording a series of data signals on a record carrier, characterized in that the apparatus comprises storage means for storing address information in the form of a temporary table of contents after recording of a data signal, and means for recording a final table of contents derived from the temporary table of contents in the form of a definitive address information signal after the last data signal of the series has been recorded.
9. Apparatus as claimed in claim 8, characterized in that the storage means are adapted to store the temporary table of contents in a memory which forms part of the apparatus.
10. Apparatus as claimed in claim 8, characterized in that the storage means are adapted to record the temporary table of contents as a temporary address information signal in an area on the record carrier which is situated outside the area intended for recording data signals and the definitive address information signal.
11. Apparatus as claimed in claim 8, characterized in that the storage means are adapted to record the temporary table of contents on the record carrier as a temporary address information signal in such a way that the relationship between the temporary address information and the information represented thereby deviates from the relationship between said other recorded signals and the information represented by said other signals.
12. Apparatus as claimed in claim 11, characterized in that the apparatus comprises means for adding first error-detection signals to the data signals and the definitive address-information signal, and means for adding second error-detection signals to the temporary address information signal the relationship between the first error-detection signals and the signals to which they have been added deviates from the relationship between the second error-detection signals and the signals to which they have been added.
13. Apparatus as claimed in claim 12, characterized in that the storage means are adapted to record the definitive address information signal in conformity with a CD-standard for read-only record carriers.
14. Apparatus as claimed in claim 12, characterized in that the storage means are adapted to record the temporary address information signal at the beginning of the lead-in track of the record carrier as defined by a CD-standard for read-only record carrier.