 The appeal is against the decision of the Examining Division refusing European patent application No. 00 966 464 on the ground that the claimed subject-matter did not involve an inventive step within the meaning of Article 56 EPC. II. The appellant requested in writing that the decision under appeal be set aside, and that a patent be granted based on: - Claim 1 as filed with the letter dated 7 September 2010; - Description: pages 1-37 filed with the letter dated 17 March 2015; and - Drawings: sheets 1/4 - 4/4 as originally filed. III. The following documents are referred to in this decision: D1:  Tate N et al: Defect Reduction of Bonded SOI Wafers by Post Anneal Process in H2 Ambient; 1998 IEEE INTERNATIONAL SOI CONFERENCE PROCEEDINGS (CAT NO.98CH36199) IEEE NEW YORK, NY, USA; October 1998, pages 141-142 D2:  EP 0 926 718 A2 D6:  JP 5 211128 A D7:  JP 10 242154 A D8:  JP 10 275905 A. Documents D1 and D2 are cited in the contested decision; documents D6-D8 are cited in the description of the present application in the section entitled "Background Art". Document D8 corresponds to DE 197 53 494 A1 (which will be referred to as D8'). IV. Claim 1, being the single claim of the sole request,  reads as follows: - "A method for producing an SOI wafer by the hydrogen ion delamination method comprising at least a step of bonding a base wafer and a bond wafer having a micro bubble layer formed by gas ion implantation and a step of delaminating a wafer having an SOI layer at the micro bubble layer as a border, wherein, after the delamination step, the wafer having an SOI layer is subjected to a two-stage heat treatment in an atmosphere containing hydrogen or argon utilizing a rapid heating/rapid cooling apparatus and a batch processing type furnace, wherein the two-stage heat treatment is performed by subjecting the wafers to a heat treatment in the rapid heating/rapid cooling apparatus and then a heat treatment in the batch processing type furnace." V. The Examining Division found essentially as follows: The subject-matter of claim 1 differed from the state of the art known from document Dl only in that after the delamination step, the wafer having an SOI layer was subjected to a two-stage heat treatment, wherein the two-stage heat treatment was performed by subjecting the wafers to a heat treatment in a batch processing type furnace after a heat treatment in a rapid heating/rapid cooling apparatus. The objective problem might therefore be regarded as providing an annealing process for SOI wafers made by the hydrogen ion delamination method, which resulted in improved quality of the SOI layer. Document D2 (figure 4 and associated text) stated explicitly that batch type annealing resulted in a lower density of crystal originated particle (COP) defects below the surface compared to a rapid thermal annealing (RTA) process. At the same time, D2 disclosed that for surface defects the RTA process yielded better results (figure 3 and associated text). The skilled person would therefore combine the teaching of D2 with the disclosure of Dl, applying both an RTA and a batch furnace annealing treatment to reduce both surface and below-surface COP defects. Furthermore, Dl disclosed that performing a batch type annealing treatment on thin SOI resulted in a large density of surface defects (so-called HF defects, revealed by etching in hydrofluoric acid), because H2 etched the buried oxide through the defect in the SOI layer during the relatively slow heat up phase. Dl stated also that the same effect did not occur during an RTA treatment, because the heat up to the anneal temperature occurred much more quickly and surface defects were covered by surface diffusion of silicon atoms before the buried oxide could be attacked by H2. Hence, when combining an RTA with a furnace annealing step, the skilled person would first perform the RTA step, and then the furnace annealing step. Consequently, the person skilled in the art would arrive at a solution falling within the scope of claim 1 without using inventive skill. VI. The appellant's arguments may be briefly summarised as follows: The distinguishing feature between the presently-claimed method and the method as disclosed in document Dl was that the wafer having an SOI layer was subjected to the claimed two-stage heat treatment. The objective problem was to provide an SOI wafer made by the hydrogen ion delamination method with improved surface quality. In particular, the invention improved (reduced) short and long period surface roughness. According to the present invention, the surface roughness of short periods was first improved in a heat treatment by a rapid heating/rapid cooling apparatus and then the surface roughness of long periods was improved by a heat treatment utilizing a batch processing type furnace resulting in an overall improved wafer surface quality. This solution would not be rendered obvious by a combination of documents Dl and D2. Document Dl disclosed a method in which a post H2 anneal was carried out by an RTA process resulting in the annihilation of HF defects on SOI layers. In addition, document Dl disclosed that the RTA process was effective to reduce "secco etch defects". Document D1 contained no teaching or suggestion to perform a second heat treatment as the first heat treatment via RTA was considered completely sufficient to reduce several defects and to therewith obtain an improved SOI wafer surface. Furthermore, document Dl described the disadvantages of heat treatments in batch processing type furnaces. Document D2 also did not disclose a two-stage heat treatment, but taught that a heat treatment should either be carried out either in a batch processing type furnace or in a rapid heating/rapid cooling apparatus.  In fact, document D2 explicitly disclosed the high cost and the low productivity of batch wise heat treatments. Similarly, none of the other prior art documents cited during the examination proceedings disclosed a two-stage heat treatment during post anneal wafer processing. Even if there were some teaching in document D2 which would motivate a skilled reader to carry out a two-stage heat treatment (which was not the case), there was no clear guidance in which order this should be carried out. Document D2 disclosed reducing COPs in depths of up to about 0.5 mym from the surface of a wafer by performing a heat treatment in a rapid heating/rapid cooling apparatus, and that a heat treatment in a batch processing type furnace resulted in the surface layer of a wafer being etched to a thickness of up to about 0.5 mym. From this disclosure the skilled reader would conclude that when a heat treatment in a batch processing type furnace was performed after a heat treatment in a RTA apparatus, the wafer surface in which the COPs had been reduced by the heat treatment in the RTA apparatus would be etched and removed by the heat treatment in the batch processing type furnace. Hence it would be unreasonable to perform a heat treatment in a batch processing type furnace after a heat treatment in an RTA apparatus.