This appeal lies from the decision of the examining division, posted on 17 May 2013, refusing European patent application No. 06 077 269.6. II. The decision was based on three sets of claims, namely a main request filed with letter dated 6 August 2008 and two auxiliary requests filed with letter dated 26 March 2013. The examining division found that the subject-matter of the claims of the main request was unclear due to the use of the wording "semi-hard" and "hard" [cheese] and that the subject-matter of the claims of the first and second auxiliary requests did not involve an inventive step in view of the teaching of D1 (US2003/0129281 A1) alone or in combination with the teaching of D5 (US 6,406,731 B1). III. On 9 July 2013 the applicant (in the following: the appellant) filed a notice of appeal and on the same day paid the appeal fee. The statement setting out the grounds of appeal was filed on 27 September 2013. The appellant requested that the decision under appeal be set aside and that a patent be granted on the basis of one of the requests before the examining division. IV. On 18 December 2014 the board dispatched a summons to oral proceedings. In the attached communication the board indicated the issues to be discussed during the oral proceedings and its preliminary view, namely that it agreed with the findings in the appealed decision. V. On 17 April 2015 the appellant filed further auxiliary requests and a copy of the "CODEX GENERAL STANDARD FOR CHEESE", CODEX STAN 283-1978 (7 pages), a document cited on page 2, lines 3-4 of the application. VI. On 16 June 2015 oral proceedings were held before the board. During the oral proceedings the appellant withdrew all its requests on file and submitted, as its sole request, an amended set of claims (new main request) and a description adapted thereto. Independent claims 1 and 9 of this request read as follows: "1. A method for preparing a shaped and filled cheese product, comprising coextruding a first edible phase and a second edible phase, wherein the second phase (filling) is completely enclosed by the first phase (covering), which first phase comprises semi-hard and/or hard natural cheese, wherein a semi-hard cheese has a moisture content of 42 to 55 wt.%, and a hard cheese has a moisture content of less than 42 wt.%, wherein the coextruded phases are compressed with the aid of a diaphragm valve, such that the first phase completely encloses the second phase and a discrete product is formed, and wherein, during the extrusion, at least the first phase has a temperature of maximally 7.0°C, wherein the pH of the second phase is between 2 and 6, and wherein the water activity of the first phase and of the second phase is between 0.85 and 0.98." "9. An extruded shaped natural cheese product obtainable by means of a method according to any one of the preceding claims, comprising a covering and a filling, wherein the covering comprises a semi-hard and/or hard natural cheese, wherein a semi-hard cheese has a moisture content of 42 to 55 wt.%, and a hard cheese has a moisture content of less than 42 wt.%, the covering completely encloses the filling, and the outer surface of the covering has a smoothly flowing shape at least at the ends of the product." Claims 2 to 8 and 10 to 16 are dependent claims. VII. The arguments presented by the appellant in its written submissions and at the oral proceedings may be summarised as follows: - The closest prior-art document, D1, disclosed a method comprising coextruding a first cheese phase and a second edible phase and cutting the extruded product with a cutter, thus resulting in a product having its filing exposed to the environment. Contrary to the view of the examining division, D1 did not teach complete enclosure of the filling (encrusting). The products of D1 had the drawback that the second phase could easily egress from the product. The technical problem of the invention was the provision of a cheese product where the covering completely enclosed the filling. - This problem was solved by the method with the features of claim 1 wherein the product coming from the extruder was divided into pieces using a diaphragm valve and under extruding conditions which ensured that no leaking of the product could occur. The products thus obtained were smooth and without undesired irregularities. - The claimed method was not suggested by the cited documents. The examining division had read much more into D1 than it really disclosed. On the one hand D1 was silent about encrusting and on the other hand encrusting was not derivable from D1, since it did not disclose an extruder with the specific diaphragm valve now used. Moreover, in view of the properties of the semi-hard or hard natural cheese the skilled person would not have used it as covering. D5 was in an entirely different field and gave no hint in the direction of the claimed method or of the advantageous properties of the obtained products. VIII. The appellant requested that the decision under appeal be set aside and that a patent be granted on the basis of claims 1 to 16 according to the main request as filed on 16 June 2015 during the oral proceedings.