--- PAGE 1 ---
10

15

20

25

30

CLAIMS

1. A control panel apparatus having reconfigurable input buttons, said apparatus
comprising:

a tactile sensor (10 and 11), said tactile sensor (10 and 11) comprises a
conductive foam elastomer;

a plurality of input buttons reconfigurable by a user, a representation (15) of
said plurality of input buttons placed on said tactile sensor (10 and 11);

a flexible protective outer surface (31) over the tactile sensor (10 and 11); and

electronics, coupled to said tactile sensor (10 and 11), for measuring a location
of a touch to an input button on said tactile sensor (10 and 11) and an existence of and
a level of pressure of said touch and for storing a plurality of functions, wherein each of
said plurality of functions is associated with a corresponding location and a different
level of pressure of said touch of one of said plurality of input buttons; and

wherein, in response to said touch on one of said plurality of input buttons on
said tactile sensor (10 and 11), said electronics measures said location and said level
of pressure of said touch, and causes an occurrence of one of said plurality of functions

associated with said location and said level of pressure of said touch.

2. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the number of said plurality of input buttons

can be reconfigured by the user.

3. The apparatus of any one of the preceding claims, wherein the spatial relation

between said plurality of input buttons can be reconfigured by the user.

4. The apparatus of any one of the preceding claims, wherein the shapes of said

plurality of input buttons can be reconfigured by the user.

5. The apparatus of any one of the preceding claims, wherein the sizes of said

plurality of input buttons can be reconfigured by the user.

6. The apparatus of any one of the preceding claims, wherein the locations of said

plurality of input buttons can be reconfigured.

23

--- PAGE 2 ---
10

15

20

25

30

35

7. The apparatus of any one of the preceding claims, wherein the orientations of

said plurality of input buttons can be reconfigured by the user.

8. The apparatus of any one of the preceding claims, wherein the functions

associated with each of said plurality of input buttons can be reconfigured by the user.

9. The apparatus of any one of the preceding claims, further comprising:
a housing (30) for enclosing said electronics and said tactile sensor (10 and
11), said housing (30) including a slot for inserting said representation (15) of said

plurality of input buttons onto said tactile sensor (10 and 11).

10. The apparatus of any one of the preceding claims, further comprising:

a housing (30) for enclosing said electronics and said tactile sensor (10 and
11), said housing (380) including a top, said top being removable to place said
representation (15) of said plurality of input buttons onto said tactile sensor (10 and
11).

11. The apparatus of claim 8, wherein the functions associated with each of said
plurality of input buttons and with defined levels of pressure can be reconfigured by the

user.

12. The apparatus of claim 11, wherein said functions include providing help,
turning on, turning off, increasing, decreasing, and particular actions depending on said

defined levels of pressure.

13. The apparatus of claim 11, wherein said functions include providing help,
turning on, turning off, increasing, decreasing, particular actions depending on said
defined levels of pressure, and providing particular actions depending on lengths of

time that a defined level of pressure is exerted on said location.

14. A method of configuring an operating control device having a conductive foam
elastomer tactile sensor (10 and 11), and a flexible protective outer surface (31)

thereover, said method comprising the steps of:
24

--- PAGE 3 ---
10

15

20

25

30

35

(a) defining an input button and a location of said input button corresponding to
a portion of said tactile sensor, wherein said input button and said location of said input
button is reconfigurable by a user of said operating control device;

(b) defining a first function of said input button, said first function associated
with an existence of, a first defined level of pressure of, and a location of a touch within
said portion on said tactile sensor (10 and 11); and

(c) defining a second function of said input button, said second function
associated with an existence of, a second defined level of pressure of, and said
location of a touch within said portion on said tactile sensor (10 and 11), wherein

said first function of said input button is selectable based on said first defined
level of pressure and said second function of said input button is selectable based on

said second defined level of pressure.

15. The method of claim 14, further comprising the steps of:

establishing a first configuration resulting from said steps (a) to (c);

generating a first representation of said input button for placement over the
tactile sensor (10 and 11) within said operating control device; and

loading said first configuration into said operating control device to enable said
operating control device to determine an appropriate output dependent on said first or

second defined level of pressure at said location of said touch.

16. The method of claim 15, further comprising the steps of:

changing said first function or said second function of said input button to result
in a different output;

establishing a second configuration resulting from said changing step;

loading said second configuration into said operating control device to enable

said operating control device to determine a different appropriate output.

17. The method of any one of claims 14-16, wherein said input button defining step

includes defining the type of said input button.

18. The method of claim 17, wherein said type of said input button can comprise a
toggle button, a pressure-sensitive button, a time-sensitive button, a one-dimensional

control button, a two-dimensional control button, or a repeat button.

25

--- PAGE 4 ---
10

15

20

25

30

19. The method of any one of claims 14-18, wherein said operating control device
controls an external device coupled to said operating control device, and said operating
control device and said external device are in a harsh environment or in an industrial

setting.

20. A computer program product for configuring an operator control panel having a
conductive foam elastomer tactile sensor (10 and 11), a flexible protective outer
surface (31) thereover, said computer program product comprising:

computer code for defining an input button and a location of said input button
corresponding to a portion of said tactile sensor, wherein said input button and said
location of said input button is reconfigurable by a user of said operator control panel;

computer code for defining a first function of said input button, said first function
associated with an existence of, a first defined level of pressure of, and a location of a
touch within said portion on said tactile sensor; and

computer code for defining a second function of said input button, said second
function associated with an existence of, a second defined level of pressure of, and
said location of a touch within said portion on said tactile sensor (10 and 11); and

a computer-readable medium for storing said computer codes;

and wherein said first function of said input button is selectable based on said
first defined level of pressure and said second function of said input button is selectable

based on said second defined level of pressure.

21. The computer program product of claim 20 wherein:
said computer-readable medium comprises a floppy disk, a magnetic storage
disk or tape, a CD-ROM, or a hard drive.

22. The computer program product of claim 20 wherein:

said computer code for defining said input button provides a user to configure
said input button as a toggle button, a pressure-sensitive button, a time-sensitive
button, a one-dimensional control button, a two-dimensional control button, or a repeat

button.

23. A system for controlling devices in an industrial or harsh environment, said

system comprising:

26

--- PAGE 5 ---
10

15

20

25

an operating control panel having a conductive foam elastomer tactile sensor
(10 and 11), a representation (15) of input buttons on said conductive foam elastomer
tactile sensor (10 and 11), a flexible protective outer surface (31) over the tactile sensor
(10 and 11), and electronics, wherein said electronics are capable of measuring a
pressure level and a location from a touch on said representation of input buttons on
said conductive foam elastomer tactile sensor (10 and 11), processing said pressure
level and said location, and outputting a signal that causes a function associated with
said pressure level and said location, wherein said input buttons and said function
associated with said pressure level and said location are reconfigurable by a user of
said operating control panel; and

an external device coupled to said operating control panel for receiving said

signal and performing said function.

24. The system of claim 23, further comprising software for reconfiguring said input
buttons of said representation of said operating control panel and loading said
reconfigured input buttons and associated functions to said operating control panel,
wherein said electronics are capable storing said reconfigured input buttons and
associated functions so as to cause said external device coupled to said operating

control panel to perform according to the reconfigured input buttons.
25. The system of claim 23, wherein said external device includes a motor

controller, a temperature controller, a PLC, a computer, a sensor, a pressurizer, a

laser, a furnace, a whirlpool, or a mechanical manipulation device.

27