TITLE:
User Programmable smart card interface system having an arbitrary mapping

TYPE:
US patent

ABSTRACT:
A customisable user interface system is disclosed, the system comprising: a card (10) comprising a substrate (12), a memory device (19) associated therewith, and indicia (70, 72) formed on said substrate (12) and user interpretable to relate to functions stored within said memory (19); and a reader device (1) for said card (10), the reader (1) comprising a touch sensitive device (8) arranged to overlay said card (10), and through which said indicia (70, 72) are visible, characterised in that said touch sensitive device (8) comprises a membrane via which said indicia (70, 72), arbitrarily arranged on said substrate (12), may be selected.

CLAIMS:
1. A customisable user interface system comprising:
a card comprising a substrate, a memory device associated therewith, and indicia formed on said substrate and user interpretable to relate to functions stored within said memory; and
a reader device for said card comprising a touch sensitive device arranged to overlay said card and through which said indicia are visible, characterised in that said touch sensitive device comprises a membrane via which said indicia, arbitrarily arranged on said substrate, may be selected.
2. A customisable user interface according to
claim 1
, wherein said indicia are at least one of arbitrarily positioned, and arbitrarily shaped, on said substrate.
3. A customisable user interface system according to
claim 1
, wherein:
selection of indicia is determined in relation to bounding boxes delineating said indicia.
4. A control template for a user interface system, said template comprising:
an electronic card formed of a substrate having associated therewith a memory device;
a plurality of indicia being at least one of arbitrarily positioned, and arbitrarily shaped, on said substrate; and
mapping data stored within said memory device and defining a mapped position of each said indicium relative to the substrate.
5. A control template according to
claim 4
, wherein:
said mapped position of each said indicium is determined in relation to a bounding box delineating said each indicium.
6. A read device for a control template interface card, said device comprising:
a substantially transparent touch sensitive membrane arranged to overlay said interface card; and
means for reading a memory device formed in said interface card in response to a users touch of said membrane.
7. A customizable user interface system according to
claim 1
, wherein said card stores a command and memory address associated with a user selected one of said indicia in said memory device, said command and memory address being used to down-load specific image data to a user display over a network from an image store that is located remotely from user.
8. A control template according to
claim 4
, wherein said card stores a command and memory address associated with a user selected one of said indicia in said memory device, said command and memory address being used to down-load specific image data to a user display over a network from an image store that is located remotely from a user.
9. A customizable user interface system according to
claim 1
, wherein said card stores a command and memory address associated with a user selected one of said indicia in said memory device, said command and memory address being used to read a specific image data to a user display from an image store that is located in proximity to a user.
10. A control template according to
claim 4
, wherein said card stores a command and memory address associated with a user selected one of said indicia in said memory device, said command and memory address being used to read a specific image data to a user display from an image store that is located in proximity to a user.
11. A customizable user interface system according to
claim 1
, wherein said reader device reads a command and memory address associated with a user selected one of said indicia from said card and outputs said command and memory address to an external device having an image store that is located remotely from user to display a specific image on a display.
12. A reader device according to
claim 6
, wherein said reading means reads a command and memory address associated with a user selected one of said indicia from said card and outputs said command and memory address to an external device having an image store that is located remotely from user to display a specific image on a display.
13. A customizable user interface system according to
claim 1
, wherein said reader device reads a command and memory address associated with a user selected one of said indicia from said card and outputs said command and memory address to an external device having an image store that is located in proximity to the user to display a specific image on a display.
14. A customizable user interface system according to
claim 6
, wherein said reading means reads a command and memory address associated with a user selected one of said indicia from said card and outputs said command and memory address to an external device having an image store that is located in proximity to the user to display a specific image on a display.