 The applicant (appellant) appealed against the decision of the Examining Division refusing European patent application No. 01932840.0. II. The Examining Division decided that the subject-matter of the independent claims lacked an inventive step in view of the following document: D1:  Nichols D.M. et al.: "Recommendation and Usage in the Digital Library", 1997, retrieved from the Internet: URL:ftp://ftp.comp.lancs.ac.uk/pub/reports/1997/CSEG.2.97.pdf. III. With the statement of grounds of appeal, the appellant filed a main request and a first auxiliary request, the claims of the main request corresponding to those considered in the decision under appeal. The appellant further filed a copy of the following post-published document (numbering introduced by the Board): D5:  Webb R.: "I want what she wants", New Scientist, 20-27 December 2008, pages 52 to 55. IV. In a communication dated 18 September 2014 accompanying a summons to oral proceedings to be held on 14 January 2015, the Board expressed the provisional opinion that the subject-matter of claim 1 of both requests lacked an inventive step. V. With a letter dated 15 October 2014, the appellant requested that a new date be set for the oral proceedings, because its representative had a holiday booked for the period 26 December 2014 to 16 January 2015. The appellant further requested the Board to choose a date in March or April 2015 in order to allow its representative time to return from vacation and prepare the written submissions prior to the oral proceedings. In response, the Board informed the appellant that the oral proceedings were postponed to 4 February 2015. VI. No written submissions commenting on the Board's communication were received. VII. On 2 February 2015, in response to an enquiry by the Board's registrar, the appellant informally advised the Board that it would not be represented at the oral proceedings. VIII. Oral proceedings were held in the absence of the appellant. At the end of the oral proceedings, the chairman pronounced the Board's decision. IX. The appellant requested that the decision under appeal be set aside and that a patent be granted on the basis of the claims of the main request or, in the alternative, on the basis of the claims of the first auxiliary request. X. Claim 1 of the main request reads as follows: "A computer-implemented method of discovering relationships between items, comprising the steps of: receiving item selections detected from observed behavior of each of a plurality of users; generating a log (114) for each user, each log containing identifiers for the item selections detected from observed behavior of the respective user; receiving a query (1402) including at least one query item identifier; scoring each user log (114), the scoring being responsive to a degree of occurrence of the or each query item identifier in the respective user log so as to generate a score for each log that represents the relevance of the user log to the received query; identifying (1404) a subset of user logs based on the scores generated for each user log; and identifying at least one result item from the subset of user logs; characterized in that: a result item comprises an item which is determined to be over-represented in the subset of user logs relative to the entire set of user logs in that it occurs more frequently in the subset of user logs than expected based on the occurrence of the item in the entire set of user logs." XI. Claim 1 of the first auxiliary request reads as follows: "A computer-implemented method of making recommendations based on a query, the method comprising the steps of: receiving item selections detected from observed behavior of each of a plurality of users; generating a log (114) for each user, each user log containing identifiers for the item selections detected from observed behavior of the respective user; receiving a query (1402) including at least one query item identifier; scoring each user log (114), the scoring being responsive to a degree of occurrence of the or each query item identifier in the respective user log so as to generate a score for each user log that represents the relevance of the user log to the received query; and identifying (1404) a subset of user logs based on the scores generated for each user log; characterised in that the method comprises: determining an item identified in the subset of user logs to be over-represented in the subset of user logs relative to the entire set of user logs if it occurs more frequently in the subset of user logs than expected based on the occurrence of the item in the entire set of user logs; and outputting the item determined to be over-represented in the subset of user logs as a recommendation." XII. The appellant's arguments relevant to this decision can be summarised as follows: Whereas the Examining Division seemed to suggest that the only use for the invention was in direct marketing, it was clear from the description that the invention could also be used in non-business-related fields such as making better recommendations of content, e.g. songs, for a personalised radio station. The problem of how to make good recommendations or identify good results was a technical problem, in particular when the method used generated better results or recommendations and helped save the end-user time and effort in having to search through large amounts of content. The concept of obtaining more relevant results in response to a query and thereby saving a user time was inherently technical. The invention solved this technical problem with a technical solution, namely by using a particular selection technique for selecting results that were more likely to be relevant to or desired by the person making a query. Part of the invention lay in the discovery of the previously unrecognised problem that generated recommendations and relationships might be skewed by certain generally popular items. Furthermore, even if this problem was regarded as already known, the claimed solution was not obvious. Otherwise a discussion of this problem in document D5, published over eight years after the priority date of the application, would not have been necessary.