--- PAGE 1 ---
MAIN REQUEST

CLAIMS:
1. A computer-implemented method of discovering relationships between
items, comprising the steps of:
receiving item selections detected from observed behavior of each of a plurality of
users;
generating a log (114) for each user, each log containing identifiers for the item
selections detected from observed behavior of the respective user;
receiving a query (1402) including at least one query item identifier;
scoring each user log (114), the scoring being responsive to a degree of
occurrence of the or each query item identifier in the respective user log so
as to generate a score for each log that represents the relevance of the user
log to the received query;
identifying (1404) a subset of user logs based on the scores generated for each
user log; and
identifying at least one result item from the subset of user logs; characterized in
that:
a result item comprises an item which is determined to be over-represented in the
subset of user logs relative to the entire set of user logs in that it occurs
more frequently in the subset of user logs than expected based on the

occurrence of the item in the entire set of user logs.

377779; JCP: JCP 62

--- PAGE 2 ---
MAIN REQUEST

2. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, further comprising using a
log-likelihood ratio to determine whether an item is over-represented in the subset of user

logs relative to the entire set of user logs.

3. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein each item is a
video track and wherein receiving item selections comprises receiving a selection of

tracks for playback.

4. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein each item is a
music track and wherein receiving item selections comprises receiving a selection of

tracks for playback.

5. The computer-implemented method of claim 4, further comprising:
generating a track list (401) containing an identifier for the or each identified

result item.
6. The computer-implemented method of claim 5, further comprising:
deleting from the track list (401) at least one identifier corresponding to a music

track already selected by a user.

7. The computer-implemented method of claim 5, further comprising:

playing the or each music track specified by the generated track list (401).

377779; JCP; JCP - 63 -

--- PAGE 3 ---
MAIN REQUEST

8. The computer-implemented method of claim 4, further comprising:

receiving a format schedule specifying music track categories for time periods;
and

generating a track list conforming to the format schedule and containing an

identifier for the or each identified result item.

9. The computer-implemented method of claim 4, wherein scoring each user
log comprises determining the degree of occurrence in the respective user log of at least

one music track identified by the or each query item identifier.

10. The computer-implemented method of claim 4, wherein scoring each user
log comprises determining the degree of occurrence in the respective user log of at least

one music track associated with an artist identified by the or each query item identifier.

11. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein receiving item

selections comprises receiving input provided by a user via a web page (106).

12. | The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein receiving item

selections comprises receiving input specifying an item purchased by a user.

13. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, further comprising:
monitoring user behavior with respect to items identified in the user log of the

respective user; and

377779; JCP; ICP - 64

--- PAGE 4 ---
MAIN REQUEST

adjusting the user log responsive to the monitored user behavior.

14. The computer-implemented method of claim 13, wherein monitoring user
behavior comprises at least one selected from the group consisting of:

detecting user input requesting that a selected item be repeated;

detecting user input requesting that a selected item be skipped;

detecting user input specifying a volume change; and

detecting user input specifying that a selected item be muted.

15. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein receiving item
selections comprises receiving input provided by a user via an application (103, 105) for

playing tracks.

16. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein receiving a query
comprises receiving a user log containing identifiers for item selections of the respective

user.

17. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein receiving a query
comprises receiving a first search term, the method further comprising:
generating a second search term containing an identifier for the or each identified

result item.

377779, JCP, JCP . 65 .

--- PAGE 5 ---
- MAIN REQUEST

18. The computer-implemented method of claim 17, further comprising at
least one of:

providing the second search term as an input for a search engine; and

adding the second search term to a searchable portion of a document associated

with the first search term.

19. | The computer-implemented method of claim 1, further comprising:

periodically uploading each generated log.

20. | The computer-implemented method of claim 1, further comprising:

outputting an advertisement relating to the or each identified result item.

21. | The computer-implemented method of claim 20, wherein outputting an
advertisement comprises displaying at least one selected from the group consisting of:

a web page;

a banner;

a portion of a web page; and

an animation.

22. | The computer-implemented method of claim 1, further comprising:

outputting a notification relating to the or each identified result item.

377779; ICP, JCP - 66 -

--- PAGE 6 ---
MAIN REQUEST

23. | The computer-implemented method of claim 22, wherein outputting a
notification comprises one of displaying a web page or sending a communication to a

user.

24. |The computer-implemented method of claim 2, wherein a log likelihood
ratio for an item is determined by:
determining a total number of user logs N (1502);
determining a number of user logs Nj in the subset of user logs;
determining a number of user logs N2 not in the subset of user logs;
determining a number of user logs kj; of the N; user logs that include the item;
determining a number of user logs ki2 of the N2 user logs that include the item;
determining a number of user logs kz; = N; - ki, of the N, user logs that do not
include the item;
determining a number of user logs kz2 = N2 - k)2 of the N2 user logs that do not
include the item;

os . . : ay
determining the log likelihood ratio as EF log
j

k, k
where: 7, =H; =D
i i
25. | The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein scoring each user

log further comprises:

using a weighting comprising one or more of the following weighting factors:

377779, JCP, JCP

- 67 -

--- PAGE 7 ---
MAIN REQUEST

a weighting factor determined using a number of occurrences of the item
in the respective user log;

a weighting factor determined using a number of occurrences of the item
in all user logs; and

a normalizing weighting factor.

26. | The computer-implemented method of claim 25, wherein the normalizing

weighting factor is —_! , where S, is a weight based on the number of
SW,

occurrences of the item in all user logs and W,, is a weight based on the number of

y

occurrences of the item in the respective user log.
27. | The computer-implemented method of claim 1, further comprising:
deleting from the or each identified result item any result items already selected

by a user associated with the query.

28. | The computer-implemented method of claim 1, further comprising:

ranking the or each identified result item.

29. | The computer implemented method of claim 1, wherein scoring each user

log further comprises:

377779, ICP; JCP . 68 .

--- PAGE 8 ---
MAIN REQUEST

using a weighting factor for the or each query item identifier, the weighting factor
comprising the logarithm of the total number of user logs divided by the

number of user logs containing the respective query item identifier.

30. A-system for discovering relationships among items, comprising:

a user interface (103, 105) configured to receive item selections detected from
observed behavior of each of a plurality of users;

at least one log database (114), coupled to the user interface, configured to store a
log for each user, each log containing identifiers for the item selections
detected from observed behavior of the respective user;

a query input device configured to receive a query (1402) including at least one
query item identifier; and

a recommendation engine (107), coupled to the log database (114) and to the
query input device, configured to score each user log, the score being
responsive to a degree of occurrence of the or each query item identifier in
the respective user log so as to generate a score for each log that represents
the relevance of the user log to the received query, to identify (1404) a
subset of user logs based on the scores generated for each use log; and to
identify at least one result item from the subset of user logs; characterized
in that

a result item comprises an item which is determined to be over-represented in the

subset of user logs relative to the entire set of user logs in that it occurs

377779; ICP; ICP - 69 -

--- PAGE 9 ---
MAIN REQUEST

more frequently in the subset of user logs than expected based on the

occurrence of the item in the entire set of user logs.

31. | The system of claim 30, wherein the recommendation engine is further
configured to use a log-likelihood ratio to determine whether an item is over-represented

in the subset of user logs relative to the entire set of user logs.

32. The system of claim 30, wherein each item is a video track and wherein
the user interface is configured to receive item selections comprising a selection of tracks

for playback.

33. The system of claim 30, wherein each item is a music track and wherein

the user interface is configured to receive item selections comprising a selection of tracks

for playback.

34. | The system of claim 33, wherein the user interface comprises an online
jukebox.

35. | The system of claim 34, wherein the online jukebox is configured to

monitor user behavior with respect to items identified in the user log of the respective

user and to adjust the user log responsive to the monitored user behavior.

377779; JCP; ICP -70-

--- PAGE 10 ---
MAIN REQUEST

36. The system of claim 35, wherein the online jukebox is configured to

monitor user behavior by detecting at least one selected from the group consisting of:

user input requesting that a selected item be repeated;
user input requesting that a selected item be skipped;
user input specifying a volume change; and

user input specifying that a selected item be muted.

37. The system of claim 36, further comprising:
a track list generator, coupled to the recommendation engine, configured to
generate a track list containing an identifier for the or each identified result

item.

38. The system of claim 37, further comprising:
a music player, coupled to the track list generator, configured to play the or each

music track specified by the generated track list.

39. The system of claim 37, further comprising:

a format scheduler, configured to receive a format schedule specifying music
track categories for time periods; and

a track list generator, coupled to the recommendation engine and to the format
scheduler, configured to generate a track list conforming to the format
schedule and containing an identifier for the or each determined result

item.

377779; JCP; JCP -7l1-

--- PAGE 11 ---
MAIN REQUEST

40. The system of claim 30, wherein the query input device is configured to
receive a query comprising a user log containing identifiers for item selections of the

respective user.

41. |The system of claim 30, wherein the query input device is configured to
receive a query comprising a first search term, the system further comprising:
a search term generator, coupled to the recommendation engine, configured to
generate a second search term containing an identifier for the or each
identified result item, to provide the second search term as an input for a
search engine, and to add the second search term to a searchable portion of

a document associated with the first search term.

42. The system of claim 30, further comprising:
an advertisement output device, coupled to the recommendation engine,
configured to output an advertisement relating to the or each identified

result item.

43. The system of claim 42, wherein the advertisement output device is
configured to output at least one selected from the group consisting of:

a web page;

a banner;

a portion of a web page; and

377779; JCP; JCP . 72 .

--- PAGE 12 ---
MAIN REQUEST

an animation.

44. The system of claim 30, further comprising:
a notification output, coupled to the recommendation engine, configured to output

a notification relating to the or each identified result item.

45. | The system of claim 44, wherein the notification output device is
configured to output at least one selected from the group consisting of:

a web page;

a banner;

a portion of a web page; and

an animation.

46. The system of claim 44, wherein the notification output device is

configured to send a communication to a user.

47, The system of claim 30, wherein the recommendation engine (107) is
further configured, when scoring each user log, to:
use a weighting comprising one or more of the following weighting factors:
a weighting factor determined using a number of occurrences of the item
in the user log;
a weighting factor determined using a number of occurrences of the item

in all user logs; and

377779; ICP; ICP
-73-

--- PAGE 13 ---
MAIN REQUEST

a normalizing weighting factor.

48. The system of claim 31 wherein the recommendation engine is configured
to use a log-likelihood ratio to determine whether an item is over-represented by:

determining a total number of user logs N (1502);

determining a number of user logs N, in the subset of user logs;

determining a number of user logs N2 not in the subset of user logs;

determining a number of user logs k); of the N, user logs that include the item;

determining a number of user logs kj2 of the N2 user logs that include the item;

determining a number of user logs kp; = N; - ki; of the N, user logs that do not

include the item;
determining a number of user logs k22 = N2 - ki2 of the N2 user logs that do not

include the item;

. ry
determining the log likelihood ratio as }°k, log—

id

k. k,,
where: 7, =a = Dy
49. The system of claim 30 wherein the recommendation engine (107) is

further configured, when scoring each user log, to use a weighting factor for the or each
query item identifier, the weighting factor comprising the logarithm of the total number
of user logs divided by the number of user logs containing the respective query item

identifier.

377779, JCP; JCP
-74-

--- PAGE 14 ---
MAIN REQUEST

50. A computer-readable medium comprising computer-readable code which,
when executed by a computer processing, performs the method of any one of claims 1 to

29.

377779; ICP, JCP -75-