The appeal is against the refusal of application no. 05 768 282 for lack of clarity, Article 84 EPC  (main request, first and fourth auxiliary request) and lack of novelty, Article 54(1) EPC (main request, first, second, third and fourth auxiliary request) over document D2: WO 03/065471 A. II. At oral proceedings before the board, the appellant requested that the decision under appeal be set aside and that a patent be granted on the basis of the following application documents: Main request: Claims 1 to 20 filed as "Auxiliary request 1" with letter of 22 April 2010; First auxiliary request: Claims 1 to 21 filed as "Auxiliary request 1" with the statement setting out the grounds of appeal of 4 February 2011; Second auxiliary request: Claims 1 to 21 filed as "Auxiliary request 2" with the statement setting out the grounds of appeal of 4 February 2011. III. Reference is also made to the following documents: D8:  Stübinger T et al., "Exciton diffusion and optical interference in organic donor-acceptor photovoltaic cells", Journal of Applied Physics, Vol. 90, No. 7, 1 October 2001, pages 3632 to 3641, D10: Peumans P et al., "Efficient bulk heterojunction photovoltaic cells using small-molecular-weight organic thin films", Nature, Vol. 425, 11 September 2003, pages 158 to 162. IV. Claim 1 according to the main request reads as follows: "A photosensitive device structure (200), comprising: a conductive core (202, 204) including a first electrode (204); an organic layer (206) comprising a photoactive region for absorbing light to form an exciton for being dissociated at a heterojunction formed by the juxtaposition of an acceptor layer and a donor layer, wherein the thicknesses of the individual layers are within the characteristic diffusion length of the exciton, and wherein the organic layer (206) surrounds the core and is electrically connected to the first electrode; and a transparent second electrode (208) surrounding and electrically connected to the organic layer (206)." V. Claim 1 according to the first auxiliary request corresponds to claim 1 of the main request, with the first feature reading as follows: "a conductive core (202, 204) including a first electrode (204), wherein the thickness of the first electrode (204) is greater than or equal to FORMULA/TABLE/GRAPHIC where rho1 is the resistivity of the first electrode, L is uninterrupted length of the photosensitive device structure, Phi is optical flux, etapwr is the device's power efficiency, FF is the fill factor, and Voc is open circuit voltage". VI. Claim 1 according to the second auxiliary request corresponds to claim 1 of the first auxiliary request, with the second feature reading as follows (added feature highlighted by the board): "an organic layer (206) comprising a photoactive region for absorbing light to form an exciton for being dissociated at a bulk heterojunction formed by the juxtaposition of an acceptor layer and a donor layer, wherein the thicknesses of the individual layers are within the characteristic diffusion length of the exciton, and wherein the organic layer (206) surrounds the core and is electrically connected to the first electrode". VII. The appellant submitted in substance the following arguments: Contrary to what was held in the decision under appeal, it was clear what the exciton diffusion length was. Divergencies in the reported values of the exciton diffusion length for a given material were due to differences in purity, morphology and processing. Moreover, the subject-matte The subject-matter of claim 1 of the first auxiliary request was also both novel and inventive over the cited prior art. There was nothing suggesting the claimed expression for the thickness of the first electrode. In order to arrive at the expression, some assumptions had to be made which were not obvious to the skilled person. Furthermore, also the subject-matter of claim 1 of the second auxiliary request was both novel and inventive over the cited prior art. Document D10 in fact led away from the claimed invention, the bulk heterojunction as presented in D10 making it unnecessary to put any restrictions on the thickness of the donor and acceptor layers as required by claim 1.