TITLE:
Photovoltaic fibers

TYPE:
World International Patent Organisation

ABSTRACT:
Photovoltaic materials and methods of photovoltaic cell fabrication provide a photovoltaic cell in the form of a fiber. These fibers may be formed into a flexible fabric or textile.

CLAIMS:
Claims 1. A photovoltaic material comprising: a fiber core having an outer surface; a light-transmissive electrical conductor around the fiber; and disposed between the outer surface of the fiber core and the light-transmissive electrical conductor: a photosensitized nanomatrix material; and a charge carrier material.
2. The photovoltaic material of claim 1 , wherein the fiber core has a glass transition temperature of less than about 300°C.
3. The photovoltaic material of claim 1 , wherein the fiber core has a glass transition temperature ranging from about 25 °C to about 150 °C.
4. The photovoltaic material of claim 1 , wherein the fiber core comprises a flexible polymeric material.
5. The photovoltaic material of claim 1 , wherein the fiber core comprises a polyethylene terephthalate.
6. The photovoltaic material of claim 1, wherein the fiber core comprises materials selected from the group consisting of flax, cotton, wool, silk, nylon, and combinations thereof.
7. The photovoltaic material of claim 1 , wherein the photosensitized nanomatrix material comprises nanoparticles.
8. The photovoltaic material of claim 1 , wherein the photosensitized nanomatrix material comprises a heteroj unction composite material.
9. The photovoltaic material of claim 1, wherein the photosensitized nanomatrix material comprises one or more types of interconnected metal oxide nanoparticles.
10. The photovoltaic material of claim 1, wherein the photosensitized nanomatrix material further comprises a photosensitizing agent.
11. The photovoltaic material of claim 10, wherein the photosensitizing agent comprises a dye.
12. The photovoltaic material of claim 10, wherein the photosensitizing agent comprises an organic molecule selected from the group consisting of xanthines, cyanines, merocyanines, phthalocyanines, and pyrroles.
13. The photovoltaic material of claim 1, wherein the charge carrier material comprises an electrolyte.
14. The photovoltaic material of claim 1, wherein the charge carrier material comprises a redox system.
15. The photovoltaic material of claim 1 , further comprising a catalytic media disposed between the outer surface of the fiber core and the light-transmissive electrical conductor.
16. The photovoltaic material of claim 15, wherein the catalytic media comprises platinum.
17. The photovoltaic material of claim 1 , wherein the photosensitized nanomatrix material comprises particles with an average size in the range of about 2 nm to about 100 nm.
18. The photovoltaic material of claim 1 , wherein the photosensitized nanomatrix material comprises particles with an average size in the range of about 10 nm to about 40 nm.
19. The photovoltaic material of claim 1 , wherein the fiber core is substantially electrically insulative.
20. The photovoltaic material of claim 1, wherein the fiber core is substantially electrically conductive.
21. The photovoltaic material of claim 1, further comprising an inner electrical conductor disposed on the outer surface of the fiber core.
22. An article of manufacture comprising the photovoltaic material of claim 1.
23. A flexible fabric comprising the photovoltaic material of claim 1.
24. A photovoltaic material comprising: a fiber core having an outer surface and a glass transition temperature less than about 300 °C; and a photoconversion material disposed on the outer surface of the fiber core.
25. The photovoltaic material of claim 24, wherein the photoconversion material comprises a photosensitized nanomatrix material and a charge carrier material.
26. The photovoltaic material of claim 25, wherein the photoconversion material comprises an inner electrical conductor disposed on the outer surface of the fiber core.
27. A photovoltaic material comprising: a fiber core having an outer surface and a diameter of less than about 500 μm; and a photoconversion material disposed on the outer surface of the fiber core.
28. The photovoltaic material of claim 27, wherein the fiber core has a diameter of less than about 250 μm.
29. The photovoltaic material of claim 27, wherein the fiber core has a diameter of less than about 125 μm.
30. The photovoltaic material of claim 27, wherein the fiber core has a glass transition temperature of less than about 300°C.
31. The photovoltaic material of claim 27, wherein the photoconversion material comprises a photosensitized nanomatrix material and a charge carrier material.
32. The photovoltaic material of claim 27, wherein the photoconversion material comprises an inner electrical conductor disposed on the outer surface of the fiber core.
33. A photovoltaic material comprising: a fiber core having an outer surface; a photoconversion material disposed on the outer surface; and an electrical conductor circumferentially covering the photoconversion material.
34. The photovoltaic material of claim 33, wherein the fiber core has a glass transition temperature of less than about 300°C.
35. The photovoltaic material of claim 33, wherein the photoconversion material comprises a photosensitized nanomatrix material and a charge carrier material.
36. The photovoltaic material of claim 33, wherein the photoconversion material comprises an inner electrical conductor disposed on the outer surface of the fiber core.
37. A method for forming a photovoltaic material, the method comprising the steps of: providing a fiber core having an outer surface; disposing a photosensitized nanomatrix material and a charge carrier material on the outer surface of the fiber core; and disposing a light-transmissive electrical conductor around the fiber core.
38. A method for forming a photovoltaic material, the method comprising the steps of: providing a fiber core having an outer surface and a glass transition temperature less than about 300 °C; and disposing a photoconversion material on the outer surface of the fiber.
39. The method of claim 38, wherein the photoconversion material comprises a photosensitized nanomatrix material and a charge carrier material.
40. The method of claim 38, further comprising disposing an inner electrical conductor on the outer surface of the fiber core.
41. A method for forming a photovoltaic material, the method comprising the steps of: providing a fiber core having an outer surface and a diameter of less than about 500 μm; and disposing a photoconversion material on the outer surface of the fiber core.
42. A method for forming a photovoltaic material, the method comprising the steps of: providing a fiber core having an outer surface; disposing a photoconversion material on the outer surface of the fiber core; and disposing an electrical conductor that circumferentially covers the photoconversion material.
43. A photovoltaic fiber comprising: a fiber core having an outer surface; a photosensitized nanomatrix material applied to the outer surface of the fiber core; a protective layer, therein disposed the photosensitized nanomatrix material coated fiber core, a charge carrier material, and a counter electrode.
44. The photovoltaic fiber of claim 43, wherein the fiber core is substantially electrically conductive.
45. The photovoltaic fiber of claim 43, wherein the fiber core comprises an is substantially electrically insulative and further comprises an inner electrical conductor being disposed on the electrically insulative fiber core.
46. The photovoltaic fiber of claim 43, wherein the protective layer comprises a flexible polymeric material.
47. The photovoltaic fiber of claim 43, wherein the photosensitized nanomatrix material comprise nanoparticles.
48. The photovoltaic fiber of claim 47, wherein the nanoparticles are selected from the group consisting of titanium oxides, zirconium oxides, zinc oxides, tungsten oxides, niobium oxides, lanthanum oxides, tin oxides, terbium oxides, tantalum oxides, and one or more combinations thereof.
49. The photovoltaic fiber of claim 43, wherein the counter electrode comprises platinum.
50. The photovoltaic fiber of claim 43, wherein the charge carrier material comprises a redox electrolyte
51. A method of forming a photovoltaic fiber, the method comprising the steps of: providing a fiber core having an outer surface; applying a photosensitized nanomatrix material to the outer surface of the fiber core; and disposing the photosensitized nanomatrix material coated fiber core, a charge carrier material, and a counter electrode within a protective layer to form a photovoltaic fiber.
52. The photovoltaic fiber of claim 43, wherein the fiber core is substantially electrically conductive.
53. The method of claim 51 , wherein the fiber core comprises an is substantially electrically insulative and further comprises an inner electrical conductor being disposed on ■ the electrically insulative fiber core.
54. The method of claim 51 , wherein the protective layer comprises a flexible polymeric material.
55. The method of claim 51 , wherein the photosensitized nanomatrix material comprise nanoparticles.
56. The method of claim 55, wherein the nanoparticles are selected from the group consisting of titanium oxides, zirconium oxides, zinc oxides, tungsten oxides, niobium oxides, lanthanum oxides, tin oxides, terbium oxides, tantalum oxides, and one or more combinations thereof.
57. The method of claim 51 , wherein the counter electrode comprises platinum.
58. The method of claim 51 , wherein the charge carrier material comprises a redox electrolyte.
59. The method of claim 51 , wherein disposing step comprises inserting the photosensitized nanomatrix material coated fiber core, the charge carrier material, and the counter electrode into the protective layer to form the photovoltaic fiber.
60. The method of claim 51 , wherein disposing step comprises coating the protective layer over the photosensitized nanomatrix material coated fiber core, the charge carrier material, and the counter electrode to form the photovoltaic fiber.