TITLE:
Method of indicating the time of an acoustic pulse and a device for carrying out the method

TYPE:
US Patent

ABSTRACT:
In a method of indicating the time of an acoustic pulse at the transmission or reception of the same, the acoustic pulse is a wave package, the amplitude envelope of which having an ascending and a descending flank. The method is characterized in that the beginning of the descending flank of the amplitude is detected for determining of a reference time in the wave package, that a predetermined zero crossing in the wave package is identified from the reference time and that the time of the identified zero crossing is determined. A device for carrying out the method and for use in an acoustic system (1) comprising means (3) for generating of an electric signal (E1, E2) corresponding the acoustic pulse (P1, P2) is characterized by first means (9) arranged to detect the beginning of the descending flank of the electric signal for determining of the reference time of the wave package and to generate a trigger signal (C) corresponding to the reference time, and second means (10) arranged to respond to the trigger signal (C) for identifying the predetermined zero crossing in the wave package and to generate a time signal (D) corresponding to the identified zero crossing (D).

CLAIMS:
1. A method of establishing a time of occurrence of an acoustic pulse at transmission or reception thereof, the acoustic pulse being a wave package having a plurality of wave peaks, with an amplitude envelope having a leading and a trailing edge, characterized in that said trailing edge of the amplitude envelope is detected for establishing a reference time in said wave package, by comparing each peak value of the wave package with an immediate preceding peak value in the same wave package for establishing when one of said peak values of the acoustic wave falls below the immediately preceding peak value in the same wave package, that a predetermined zero crossing in the wave package is identified from said reference time, and that the time of occurrence of the identified zero crossing is established.
2. Method according to claim 1, characterized in that the predetermined zero crossing is a zero crossing which occurs immediately after or which coincides with said reference time.
3. Method according to claim 1, in which said acoustic wave package is first transmitted and the time of occurrence established for that transmission, and the wave package thereafter is received and the time of occurrence established for that reception, characterized in that the same predetermined zero crossing is identified in the transmitted and the received wave package, the transit time from the transmission to the reception of the wave package being calculated from the difference in time between the time of occurrence that has been established for the transmitted wave package and the time of occurrence that has been established for the received wave package.
4. Method according to claim 3, characterized in that the calculation of the transit time is performed by calculating a difference in time between those zero crossings in the transmitted and the received wave package, respectively, which have a most advantageous signal-to-noise ratio.
5. Method according to claim 1, characterized in that a predetermined zero crossing in the wave package is identified on each measuring occasion.
6. Method according to claim 1, characterized in that the wave package is caused to propagate through one or more tubes or the like, each said tube having a diameter, a carrier of the acoustic pulse having a wavelength greater than the diameter of the tube.
7. A device for establishing the time of occurrence of an acoustic pulse that is transmitted or received in an acoustic system which comprises means for generating an electric signal corresponding to the pulse, the acoustic pulse and the corresponding electric signal, respectively, being wave packages having a plurality of wave peaks, with an amplitude envelope having a leading and a trailing edge, characterized by first means arranged to detect the trailing edge of the electric signal for establishing a reference time in the wave package, by comparing each peak value of the electric signal with an immediately preceding peak value in the same wave package and to generate a trigger signal corresponding to said reference time if a latest peak value is lower than an immediately preceding peak value, and second means arranged to respond to the trigger signal for identifying a predetermined zero crossing in the wave package and to generate a time signal corresponding to the identified zero crossing.
8. Device according to claim 7, characterized in that the first means comprise at least one capacitor which via a current rectifying means, such as a diode, is instantaneously charged at a charging voltage to the peak value of the electric signal and discharged via a resistor, having a resistance value selected such that the charging voltage of the capacitor drops at a lower rate than peak values of the wave package on the trailing edge, and that said first means further comprise means for providing a time derivative of the voltage on said capacitor for generating a pulse train, a last pulse of which corresponds to last wave peak of the wave package before the trailing edge of the envelope, said trigger signal being emitted at the reference time of a first missing pulse in said pulse train.