 European patent application number 04256786.7 (publication number EP 1 655 693 A1) filed on 3 November 2004 relates to a calendar application in a handheld electronic device for managing appointments and meetings and for providing an automatic notification of scheduling conflicts. II. The examining division refused the application for lack of inventive step for the first time in 2006, raising the objection in particular against the following independent claims 1 and 9 filed by a letter dated 6 January 2006: "1.      A method of checking a new calendar entry in a calendar application (54) of a handheld electronic device (4), said calendar application (54) having a plurality of existing calendar entries, said calendar application (54) having a calendar cache associated therewith, said calendar cache including a first subset of said existing calendar entries falling within a first date range, the method comprising steps of: receiving information relating to said new calendar entry, said information including at least one of a date, a start time and an end time of said new calendar entry; determining whether said date falls within said first date range of said calendar cache; if said date falls within said first date range: (i) examining said calendar cache and determining whether said new calendar entry directly conflicts with one of said existing calendar entries in said first subset of said existing calendar entries using said information, and (ii) providing a conflict notification (60) if said new calendar entry directly conflicts with one of said existing calendar entries in said first subset of said existing calendar entries; and if said date falls outside of said first date range: (i) updating said calendar cache to create an updated calendar cache by replacing said first subset of said existing calendar entries with a second subset of said existing calendar entries falling within a second date range, said second date range covering a predetermined time period including said date, (ii) examining said updated calendar cache and determining whether said new calendar entry directly conflicts with one of said existing calendar entries in said second subset of said existing calendar entries using said information, and (iii) providing a conflict notification (60) if said new calendar entry directly conflicts with one of said existing calendar entries in said second subset of said existing calendar entries." "9. A handheld electronic device (4) having a calendar application (54), comprising: a display (12); a processor (20); and a memory (44) operable to store a plurality of existing calendar entries of said calendar application (54), said calendar application (54) having a calendar cache associated therewith, said calendar cache operable to include a first subset of said existing calendar entries falling within a first date range, said memory (44) being operable to store one or more routines executable by said processor (20), said one or more routines being adapted to: (a) receive information relating to a new calendar entry, said information including at least one of a date, a start time and an end time of said new calendar entry; (b) determine whether said date falls within said first date range of said calendar cache; (c) if said date falls within said first date range: (i) examine said calendar cache and determine whether said new calendar entry directly conflicts with one of said existing calendar entries in said first subset of said existing calendar entries using said information, and (ii) provide a conflict notification on said display (12) if said new calendar entry directly conflicts with one of said existing calendar entries in said first subset of said existing calendar entries; and (d) if said date falls outside of said first date range: (i) update said calendar cache to create an updated calendar cache by replacing said first subset of said existing calendar entries with a second subset of said existing calendar entries falling within a second date range, said second date range covering a predetermined time period including said date, (ii) examine said updated calendar cache and determine whether said new calendar entry directly conflicts with one of said existing calendar entries in said second subset of said existing calendar entries using said information, and (iii) provide a conflict notification on said display (12) if said new calendar entry directly conflicts with one of said existing calendar entries in said second subset of said existing calendar entries." III. An appeal lodged against the refusal of the application was successful, leading to the reversal of the decision and the remittal of the case to the examining division for further prosecution (decision T 1265/06 of the Board). IV. In a subsequent decision posted on 1 December 2009, the examining division again refused the application for lack of inventive step referring to new documentary evidence. The new documents D3 to D11 include the following prior art documents: D3:  US 2004/0088362 A1, 6 May 2004 D6:  BAGGIO A.: 'Replication and Caching Strategies in Cadmium' INRIA RAPPORTS DE RECHERCHE - RESEARCH REPORT 01 April 1998, pages 1-8. D7:  US 5 632 038, 20 May 1997. D9:  SMITH A.J.: 'Cache Memories' ACM TRANSACTIONS ON DATABASE SYSTEMS no. 3, 1 September 1982, pages 473 - 530. D10: VANDERWIEL S.P. et al.: 'Data prefetch mechanisms' ACM COMPUTING SURVEYS no. 2, 01 June 2000, NEW YORK, US, pages 174 - 199. Documents D4, D5, D8, and D11, all retrieved from the Internet, have a publication date after the filing date of the present application. Documents D4, D5, and D8 are Wikipedia articles, D11 the following online FAQ article: D11: "4GuysFromRolla.com : ASP FAQS : Application Object. Question: How Can I Use Application-Level Variables to Cache Information?". ASPFAQs.com. FAQ posted on 4 March 2001. Retrieved from http://www.4guysfromrolla.com/aspfaqs/ShowFAQ.asp?FAQID=142 on 24 June 2009. The decision cited document D3 as closest prior art. According to point 3 of the Reasons, document D3 disclosed a method of checking a new calendar entry in a calendar application of a mobile telephone, i.e. a handheld electronic device. The calendar application had a calendar application database and a calendar cache associated with the calendar application. The cache was asserted to be "implicit from any database access". "[I]mplicit from the use of the fetched calendar data to check for double booking conflicts" was also that the calendar cache included a subset of existing calendar entries falling within a data range. To corroborate these assertions, the decision in point 3 referred back to preceding points of the decision, in which the examining division discussed the "technical substance" of the claimed subject matter of the present invention. The cache was not a hardware cache used to speed up a microprocessor, but "a high-level application cache controlled by application-specific software rules". Therefore, "the application variables (located in the memory) which [were] loaded through a database fetch already [were] the cache (cf. D11, 'answer ': 'We can use application-level variables as a cache to store database results')". The conflict notification implied that the existing date entries had to be checked within a given time frame which depended on the maximum appointment duration so that all entries within that given time frame had necessarily to be (pre-)fetched from the calendar database. The analysis of document D3 in point 3 concluded that the only V. The applicant (appellant) lodged an appeal against this second refusal decision and paid the appeal fee in due time and form. Together with a statement setting out the grounds of appeal, the appellant filed three sets of claims as main and auxiliary requests, which requests, according to the appellant, conformed with those requests considered by the examining division in the decision under appeal. In particular, the claims relevant to this decision are identical to the corresponding claims considered by the examining division as well as to the claims filed in 2006 (see point II above). VI. The appellant has requested that the decision under appeal be set aside and the case be remitted to the department of first instance for grant. In the event that the main request was not allowed oral proceedings have been requested. In addition, the appellant expressed concerns regarding a possibly "unlimited sequence of retrograde refusals and appeals" and asked for a wording of the decision which did not give the examining division "any scope to perform further searches and issue a further (third) summons to oral proceedings". VII. The appellant further complained that the inventive step objection was based on a mosaic of nine documents. These documents and in particular document D3 did not provide any better grounds for the refusal than those already considered and decided in the previous appeal decision. The technical problem underlying the invention resided in a more efficient technical implementation of a calendar application, providing an automatic conflict notification on a handheld electronic device. The new and inventive solution was a "moving cache", i.e. a cache that implemented the update mechanism defined in claim 1, obviating the need to search the entire database of existing calendar entries. It had not been and it was not a point of dispute that databases and caching were known. Contrary to the examining division's opinion however, document D3 disclosed a caching or prefetching feature neither explicitly, nor implicitly.