--- PAGE 1 ---
274623v1

12

Main Request

Claims

1. A method of checking a new calendar entry in a calendar application (54) of a
handheld electronic device (4), said calendar application (54) having a plurality of
existing calendar entries, said calendar application (54) having a calendar cache
associated therewith, said calendar cache including a first subset of said existing
calendar entries falling within a first date range, the method comprising steps of:

receiving information relating to said new calendar entry, said information
including at least one of a date, a start time and an end time of said new calendar
entry;

determining whether said date falls within said first date range of said calendar
cache;

if said date falls within said first date range: (i) examining said calendar cache
and determining whether said new calendar entry directly conflicts with one of said
existing calendar entries in said first subset of said existing calendar entries using said
information, and (ii) providing a conflict notification (60) if said new calendar entry
directly conflicts with one of said existing calendar entries in said first subset of said
existing calendar entries; and

oo if said date falls outside of said first date range: (i) updating said calendar

cache to create an updated calendar cache by replacing said first subset of said
existing calendar entries with a second subset of said existing calendar entries falling
within a second date range, said second date range covering a predetermined time
period including said date, (ii) examining said updated calendar cache and
determining whether said new calendar entry directly conflicts with one of said
existing calendar entries in said second subset of said existing calendar entries using
said information, and (iii) providing a conflict notification (60) if said new calendar
entry directly conflicts with one of said existing calendar entries in said second subset

of said existing calendar entries.

2. The method according to claim 1, wherein said information includes said date,
said start time and said end time, wherein said step of examining said calendar cache

includes determining whether said new calendar entry is adjacent to one of said

--- PAGE 2 ---
274623v1

Main Request

existing calendar entries in said first subset, wherein said step of providing a conflict
notification (60) if said new calendar entry directly conflicts with one of said existing
calendar entries in said first subset includes providing an adjacency notification (65) if
said new calendar entry is adjacent to one of said existing calendar entries in said first
subset, wherein said step of examining said updated calendar cache includes
determining whether said new calendar entry is adjacent to one of said existing
calendar entries in said second subset, and wherein said step of providing a conflict
notification (60) if said new calendar entry directly conflicts with one of said existing
calendar entries in said second subset includes providing an adjacency notification
(65) if said new calendar entry is adjacent to one of said existing calendar entries in

said second subset.

3. The method according to claim 1, wherein said information includes said date,

said start time and said end time.

4. The method according to claim 1, wherein said new calendar entry is based on

a received meeting invitation.

5. The method according to claim 1, wherein said new calendar entry is based on

anew appointment or meeting input by a user.

6. The method according to claim 1, wherein said new calendar entry is one of a
series of recurring new calendar entries, the method including repeating the steps of
claim 1 for a predetermined number of said recurring new calendar entries, in each
case one of said predetermined number of said recurring new calendar entries being

treated as said new calendar entry.

7. The method according to claim 2, wherein said new calendar entry is one of a
series of recurring new calendar entries, the method including repeating the steps of
claim 2 for a predetermined number of said recurring new calendar entries, in each
case one of said predetermined number of said recurring new calendar entries being

treated as said new calendar entry.

--- PAGE 3 ---
274623v1

14

Main Request

8. The method according to claim 1, wherein said predetermined time period is a

predetermined time period before and after said date.

9. A handheld electronic device (4) having a calendar application (54),
comprising: ,

a display (12);

a processor (20); and

a memory (44) operable to store a plurality of existing calendar entries of said
calendar application (54), said calendar application (54) having a calendar cache
associated therewith, said calendar cache operable to include a first subset of said
existing calendar entries falling within a first date range, said memory (44) being
operable to store one or more routines executable by said processor (20), said one or
more routines being adapted to:

(a) receive information relating to a new calendar entry, said information
including at least one of a date, a start time and an end time of said new calendar
entry;

(b) determine whether said date falls within said first date range of said
calendar cache;

(c) if said date falls within said first date range: (i) examine said calendar cache
and determine whether said new calendar entry directly conflicts with one of said
existing calendar entries in said first subset of said existing calendar entries using said
information, and (ii) provide a conflict notification on said display (12) if said new
calendar entry directly conflicts with one of said existing calendar entries in said first
subset of said existing calendar entries; and

(d) if said date falls outside of said first date range: (i) update said calendar
cache to create an updated calendar cache by replacing said first subset of said
existing calendar entries with a second subset of said existing calendar entries falling
within a second date range, said second date range covering a predetermined time
period including said date, (ii) examine said updated calendar cache and determine
whether said new calendar entry directly conflicts with one of said existing calendar
entries in said second subset of said existing calendar entries using said information,

and (iii) provide a conflict notification on said display (12) if said new calendar entry

--- PAGE 4 ---
15

Main Request

directly conflicts with one of said existing calendar entries in said second subset of

said existing calendar entries.

10. The electronic device (4) according to claim 9, wherein said information
includes said date, said start time and said end time, wherein said one or more
routines are further adapted to:

(i) if said date falls within said first date range, determine whether said new
calendar entry is adjacent to one of said existing calendar entries in said first subset and
provide an adjacency notification on said display (12) if said new calendar entry is
adjacent to one of said existing calendar entries in said first subset, and

(ii) if said date falls outside of said first date range, determine whether said
new calendar entry is adjacent to one of said existing calendar entries in said second
subset and provide an adjacency notification on said display (12) if said new calendar

entry is adjacent to one of said existing calendar entries in said second subset.

11. The electronic device (4) according to claim 9, wherein said information

includes said date, said start time and said end time.

12. The electronic device (4) according to claim 9, wherein said new calendar

entry is based on a meeting invitation received by said electronic device (4).

13. The electronic device (4) according to claim 9, wherein said new calendar

entry is based on a new appointment or meeting input into said electronic device (4).

14, The electronic device (4) according to claim 9, wherein said new calendar
entry is one of a series of recurring new calendar entries, said one or more routines
being further adapted to repeat (a) through (d) of claim 9 for a predetermined number
of said recurring new calendar entries, in each case one of said predetermined number

of said recurring new calendar entries being treated as said new calendar entry.

15. | The electronic device (4) according to claim 10, wherein said new calendar

entry is one of a series of recurring new calendar entries, said one or more routines
274623v1

--- PAGE 5 ---
274623v1

Main Request

being further adapted to repeat (a) through (d) of claim 9 and (i) and (ii) of claim 10
for a predetermined number of said recurring new calendar entries, in each case one
of said predetermined number of said recurring new calendar entries being treated as

said new calendar entry.

16. The electronic device (4) according to claim 9, wherein said predetermined

time period is a predetermined time period before and after said date.