This appeal lies from the decision of the Examining Division posted on 15 December 2011 refusing European patent application No. 03 078 948.1 with the European publication No. 1 407 726. II. The following documents were cited in the contested decision: (1)  US-A-5 288 711, (2)  US-A-5 674 242 and (3)  US-A-5 624 411. III. This is the second appeal which has been filed in connection with this application. In the decision on the first, T 2287/08 (not published in OJ EPO), the Board of Appeal remitted the case to the first instance for further prosecution, since the amended claim 1 submitted before the Board generated new issues yet to be addressed in examination proceedings thus constituting a fresh case. In the decision of 4 July 2008 leading to that first appeal, the Examining Division found that the subject-matter according to the then pending requests lacked inventive step over a combination of documents (1) and (3). IV. Claim 1 of the set of claims (and present main request) underlying the contested decision of 15 December 2011 reads as follows: "A stent having a coating applied thereto, said coating formed from a mixture of (i) a polymer and (ii) rapamycin or a macrocyclic lactone analog of rapamycin". V. In the decision presently under appeal, the Examining Division held that the subject-matter according to the then pending request lacked inventive step over a combination of documents (1) and (3), document (1) disclosing a stent impregnated with rapamycin for the treatment of restenosis, document (3) teaching that sustained release of therapeutic agents for the treatment of restenosis was achieved by using a stent coated with a polymer mixed with the therapeutic substance. VI. With a letter dated 9 June 2015, the Appellant (Applicant) submitted a main request and an auxiliary request, said requests superseding all previous requests. Claim 1 of the main request is identical to claim 1 underlying the contested decision. Claim 1 of the auxiliary request differs therefrom in that the polymer is specified as being nonabsorbable and biocompatible. VII. The Appellant submitted that the coated stent was inventive, regardless of whether document (1) or document (3) was considered to represent the closest prior art. Starting however from the disclosure of document (3), it could not have been reasonably expected that rapamycin could be incorporated into the polymer coating of the stents according to document (3) in quantities high enough to provide sustained prevention of smooth muscle proliferation at the site of angioplasty without serious systemic complications. This was because document (1) taught that rapamycin must be used in high amounts to achieve any sort of anti-proliferative effect in vitro and must be delivered immediately after injury. By incorporating rapamycin into a polymer coating on a stent, its delivery would be automatically slowed, such that the skilled person would not consider that fast delivery in high concentrations to cells in vivo, as required by document (1), to be achievable. In addition, document (2) taught that polymer-coated stents for drug delivery had a limited capacity for carrying a drug. Furthermore, the post-published document: (4)  P. S. Teirstein, Circulation, 2001, 104, pages 1996 to 1998 filed with a letter dated 22 April 2010 before the Examining Division was evidence of the commercial success of the claimed stents which was proof that they were the first stents to solve the problem of avoiding restenosis in an efficient manner. With letter dated 9 June 2015, the Appellant provided estimated revenues from stents according to the invention. With regard to the auxiliary request, document (3) taught away from using nonabsorbable polymers. VIII. The Appellant requested that the decision under appeal be set aside and a patent be granted on the basis of the main request or, subsidiarily, on the basis of the auxiliary request, both requests filed with letter dated 9 June 2015. IX. At the end of the oral proceedings, held on 9 July 2015, the decision of the Board was announced.