TITLE:
Method of treating hyperproliferative vascular disease

TYPE:
US Patent

ABSTRACT:
This invention provides a method of preventing or treating hyperproliferative vascular disease in a mammal by administering an antiproliferative effective amount of a combination of rapamycin and heparin.

CLAIMS:
1. A method of treating vascular disease resulting from smooth muscle cell proliferation in a mammal in need thereof which comprises, administering an antiproliferative effective amount of the combination of rapamycin in a concentration of at least 1 nM and heparin in a concentration of at least 1 μg/ml to said mammal orally, parenterally, intravascularly, intranasally, intrabronchially, transdermally, rectally, or via an impregnated vascular stent.
2. The method according to claim 1 wherein the vascular disease resulting from smooth muscle cell proliferation is intimal smooth muscle cell hyperlasia or restenosis.
3. The method according to claim 2 wherein the combination of rapamycin and heparin is administered concurrent with said mammal undergoing a percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty procedure.
4. The method according to claim 3 wherein the hyperproliferative vascular disease is restenosis.
5. The method according to claim 2 wherein the combination of rapamycin and heparin is administered subsequent to said mammal undergoing a percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty procedure.
6. The method according to claim 5 wherein the hyperproliferative vascular disease is restenosis.
7. The method according to claim 2 wherein the combination of rapamycin and heparin is administered concurrent with said mammal sustaining a biologically or mechanically mediated vascular injury.
8. The method according to claim 2 wherein the combination of rapamycin and heparin is administered subsequent to said mammal sustaining a biologically or mechanically mediated vascular injury.
9. A composition for the use in preventing or treating hyperproliferative vascular disease in a mammal which comprises an antiproliferative effective amount of a combination of rapamycin in a concentration of at least 1 nM and heparin in a concentration of at least 1 μg/ml and a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier.
10. The composition according to claim 9 wherein the vascular disease resulting from smooth muscle cell proliferation is intimal smooth muscle cell hyperplasia or restenosis.
11. The method according to claim 1 wherein the vascular disease resulting from smooth muscle cell proliferation is vascular occlusion.
12. The composition according to claim 9 wherein the vascular disease resulting from smooth muscle cell proliferation is vascular occlusion.
13. A method of treating restenosis in a mammal resulting from said mammal undergoing a percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty procedure which comprises administering an antirestenosis effective amount of a combination of rapamycin and heparin to said mammal orally, parenterally, intravascularly, intranasally, intrabronchially, transdermally, rectally, or via an impregnated vascular stent.