The transfer of the European patent application no. 03078317.9 from Eastman Kodak Company (legal predecessor of the current applicant) to Intellectual Ventures Fund 83 LLC (current applicant) was requested with letter dated 21 March 2013. The registration of the transfer took effect on 21 March 2013, as confirmed by the communication of the EPO dated 2 April 2013. In the following no distinction is made between the current applicant/appellant and its predecessor. II. The applicant (appellant) appealed against the decision of the Examining Division to refuse European patent application no. 03078317.9. III. In the contested decision, the Examining Division came to the conclusion that the subject-matter of claim 1 of the request filed by fax on 26 November 2008 did not involve an inventive step with regard to the following document (Article 56 EPC): D3: EP-A2-0 800 147. The Examining Division identified also the following prior art which had been cited during examination: D1:  WO-A-99/57622 D2:  WO-A-02/059828. IV. With the statement of grounds of appeal the appellant filed a new set of claims 1 to 7 and implicitly requested to set aside the decision under appeal and to grant a patent on the basis of these claims. Additionally, the appellant requested oral proceedings before the Board, should the appeal not be allowed. V. With letter dated 17 December 2014, the appellant was sum VI. In a communication pursuant to Article 15(1) RPBA dated 2 March 2015, the Board raised some objections under Article 84 EPC against claim 1 of the appellant's request. On the other hand, the Board concurred with the appellant that document D3 did not constitute a suitable starting point for assessing the inventive step of the present invention, as understood from the description. VII. In reply to the Board's communication, the appellant filed with letter dated 21 April 2015 a new main request and an auxiliary request. Furthermore, the appellant asked the Board to consider, in advance of the oral proceedings, if any of the requests was potentially allowable, and to communicate its findings to the appellant in case it proved possible to cancel the oral proceedings. VIII. In a communication sent by fax on 8 May 2015, the Board expressed the view that neither the main request nor the auxiliary request satisfied the requirements of Article 84 EPC. However, if the appellant filed a new claim overcoming all clarity objections, the Board might decide to remit the case to the department of first instance with the order to grant a patent on the basis of such claim and a description to be adapted. IX. With letter dated 14 May 2015, the appellant replaced the main request and withdrew the previously filed auxiliary request. The request for oral proceedings was maintained in the event that the Board was unable to remit the case to the department of first instance based on the replacement main request. X. In reply to a fax by the Board dated 18 May 2015, the appellant filed, with letter dated 18 May 2015, a new replacement main request. The conditional request for oral proceedings was maintained. XI. The oral proceedings were then cancelled. XII. The only claim of the appellant's sole request ("main request") reads as follows: "A computer implemented method for improving image classification of a digital image comprising the steps of: (a) providing an exemplar color image; (b) systematically altering the exemplar color image to generate an expanded set of images, wherein systematically altering the exemplar color image comprises: spatially altering the exemplar color image to generate an expanded set of spatially altered images, wherein spatially altering the exemplar color image comprises: horizontally mirroring the exemplar color image, thereby doubling the number of images in the expanded set of images, or systematically cropping the edges of the exemplar color image from one or more sides of the exemplar color image, thereby increasing the number of images in the expanded set of images; and/or temporally altering the exemplar color image to generate an expanded set of temporally altered images, whereby the images in the expanded set simulate the appearance of capturing an image earlier or later in time, wherein temporally altering the exemplar color image comprises: systematically shifting the color distribution of the exemplar color image, thereby increasing the number of images in the expanded set of images, or systematically shifting the illuminant quality of the exemplar color image, thereby increasing the number of images in the expanded set of images; and (c) using a semantic classifier and the expanded set of images to determine an image classification for the exemplar colour image; wherein the expanded set of images are used to train the classifier in step (c), thereby providing an improved classifier." XIII. In the statement of grounds the appellant argued that document D3 did not put into question the inventive step of the method of the invention. In particular, the appellant argued that the "image" in document D3 was specifically disclosed as a set of text-based bi-level (black and white) symbols. Furthermore, rather than systematically altering the primary image to generate an expanded set of images, the method of D3 separately preprocessed each of the input images to produce, not an expanded set of images, but a single binary gray level image. In other words, document D3 disclosed the processing of many images into one, whereas the present invention processed one image into many.