TITLE:
Pre-processing and post-processing for enhancing knowledge discovery using support vector machines

TYPE:
World International Patent Organisation

ABSTRACT:
A system and method for enhancing knowledge discovery from data using a learning machine in general and a support vector machine in particular. With reference to figure 1, training data for a learning machine is pre-processed in order to add meaning thereto (104). Pre-processing data may involve transforming the data points and/or expanding the data points. By adding meaning to the data, the learning machine is provided with a greater amount of information for processing. With regard to support vector machines in particular, the greater the amount of information that is processed, the better generalizations about the data that may be derived. The learning machine is therefore trained with the pre-processed training data and is tested (112) with test data that is pre-processed in the same manner (110). The test output from the learning machine is post-processed in order to determine if the knowledge discovered from the test data is desirable (114). Post-processing involves interpreting the test output into a format that may be compared with the test data. Live data is pre-processed and input into the trained and tested learning machine. The live output from the learning machine may then be post-processed into a computationally derived alphanumerical classifier for interpretation by a human or computer automated process.

CLAIMS:
What is claimed is: 1. A method for enhancing knowledge discovered from data using a learning machine comprising the steps of: pre-processing a training data set to expand each of a plurality of training data points; training the learning machine using the pre-processed training data set; pre-processing a test data set in the same manner as was the training data set; testing the trained learning machine using the pre-processed test data set; and in response to receiving the test output of the trained learning machine, post-processing the test output to determine if the knowledge discovered from the pre-processed test data set is desirable.
2. A computer-readable medium having stored thereon computer- executable instructions for performing the method of claim 1.
3. The method of claim 1 , wherein pre-processing the training data set to expand each of the plurality of training data points comprises adding dimensionality to each of the plurality of training data points.
4. The method of claim 3, wherein each training data point comprises a vector having one or more original coordinates; and wherein adding dimensionality to each training data point comprises adding one or more new coordinates to the vector.
5. A computer-readable medium having stored thereon computer- executable instructions for performing the method of claim 4.
6. The method of claim 4, wherein the new coordinate added to the vector is derived by applying a transformation to one of the original coordinates.
7. The method of claim 6, wherein the transformation is based on expert knowledge.
8. The method of claim 6, wherein the transformation is computationally dervied.
9. The method of claim 6, wherein the training data set comprises a continuous variable; and wherein the transformation comprises optimally categorizing the continuous variable of training data set.
10. A computer-readable medium having stored thereon computer- executable instructions for performing the method of claim 9.
11. The method of claim 1 , wherein post-processing the test output comprises interpreting the test output into a format that may be compared with the plurality of test data points.
12. A computer-readable medium having stored thereon computer- executable instructions for performing the method of claim 11.
13. The method of claim 1, wherein the knowledge to be discovered from the data relates to a regression or density estimation; and wherein post-processing the test output comprises optimaly categorizing the test output to derive cutoff points in the continuous variabe.
14. A computer-readable medium having stored thereon computer- executable instructions for performing the method of claim 13.
15. The method of claim 1, wherein the knowledge to be discovered from the data relates to a regression or density estimation; wherein the training output comprises a continuous variable; and wherein the method further comprises the steps of: in response to training the learning machine, receiving a training output from the learning machine, and post-processing the training output by optimally categorizing the test output to derive cutoff points in the continuous variable.
16. A computer-readable medium having stored thereon computer- executable instructions for performing the method of claim 15.
17. A method for enhancing knowledge discovered from data using a support vector machine comprising the steps of: pre-processing a training data set to add meaning to each of a plurality of training data points; training the support vector machine using the pre-processed training data set; pre-processing a test data set in the same manner as was the training data set; testing the trained support vector machine using the pre-processed test data set; and in response to receiving the test output of the trained support vector machine, post-processing the test output to determine if the test output is an optimal solution.
18. A computer-readable medium having stored thereon computer- executable instructions for performing the method of claim 17.
19. The method of claim 17, wherein each training data point comprises a vector having one or more coordinates; and wherein pre-processing the training data set to add meaning to each training data point comprises: determining that the training data point is dirty; and in response to determining that the training data point is dirty, cleaning the training data point.
20. A computer-readable medium having stored thereon computer- executable instructions for performing the method of claim 19.
21. The method of claim 19, wherein cleaning the training data point comprises deleting, repairing or replacing the data point.
22. The method of claim 17, wherein each training data point comprises a vector having one or more original coordinates; and wherein pre-processing the training data set to add meaning to each training data point comprises adding dimensionality to each training data point by adding one or more new coordinates to the vector.
23. A computer-readable medium having stored thereon computer- executable instructions for performing the method of claim 22.
24. The method of claim 22, wherein the one or more new coordinates added to the vector are derived by applying a transformation to one or more of the original coordinates.
25. The method of claim 24, wherein the transformation is based on expert knowledge.
26. The method of claim 24, wherein the transformation is computationally derived.
27. The method of claim 24, wherein the training data set comprises a continuous variable; and wherein the transformation comprises optimally categorizing the continuous variable of the training data set.
28. The method of claim 27, wherein optimally categorizing the continuous variable of the traning data set comprises:
29. A computer-readable medium having stored thereon computer- executable instructions for performing the method of claim 28.
30. The method of claim 17, wherein post-processing the test output comprises inteφreting the test output into a format that may be compared with the test data set.
31. The method of claim 17, wherein the knowledge to be discovered from the data relates to a regression or density estimation; wherein a training output comprises a continuous variable; and wherein the method further comprises the step of post-processing the training output by optimally categorizing the training output to derive cutoff points in the continuous variabe.
32. The method of claim 31, wherein optimally categorizing the training output comprises:
33. A computer-readable medium having stored thereon computer- executable instructions for performing the method of claim 32.
34. The method of claim 17, further comprising the steps of: selecting a kernel for the support vector machine prior to training the support vector machine; in response to post-processing the test output, determining that the test output is not the optimal solution; adjusting the selection of the kernel; and in response to adjusting the selection of the kernel, retraining and retesting the support vector machine.
35. A computer-readable medium having stored thereon computer- executable instructions for performing the method of claim 34.
36. The method of claim 34, wherein the selection of a kernel is based on prior performance or historical data and is dependant on the nature of the knowledge to be discovered from the data or the nature of the data.
37. The method of claim 17, further comprising the steps of: in response to post-processing the test output, determining that the test output is the optimal solution; collecting a live data set; pre-processing the live data set in the same manner as was the training data set; inputting the pre-processed live data set to the support vector machine for processing; and receiving the live output of the trained support vector machine.
38. A computer-readable medium having stored thereon computer- executable instructions for performing the method of claim 37.
39. The method of claim 37, further comprising the step post-processing the live output by inteφreting the live output into a computationally derived alphanumerical classifier.
40. A computer-readable medium having stored thereon computer- executable instructions for performing the method of claim 39.
41. A system for enhancing knowledge discovered from data using a support vector machine comprising: a storage device for storing a training data set and a test data set; a processor for executing a support vector machine; the processor further operable for: collecting the training data set from the database, pre-processing the training data set to add meaning to each of a plurality of training data points, training the support vector machine using the pre-processed training data set; in response to training the support vector machine, collecting the test data set from the database, pre-processing the test data set in the same manner as was the training data set, testing the trained support vector machine using the pre-processed test data set, and in response to receiving the test output of the trained support vector machine, post-processing the test output to determine if the test output is an optimal solution.
42. The system of claim 41, further comprising a communications device for receiving the test data set and the training data set from a remote source; and wherein the processor is further operable to store the training data set in the storage device prior to collection and pre-processing of the traning data set and to store the test data set in the storage device prior to collection and pre-processing of the test data set.
43. The system of claim 41, further comprising a display device for displaying the post-processed test data.
44. The system of claim 41, wherein each training data point comprises a vector having one or more original coordinates; and wherein pre-processing the training data set to add meaning to each training data point comprises adding dimensionality to each training data point by adding one or more new coordinates to the vector.
45. The system of claim 44, wherein the one or more new coordinates added to the vector are derived by applying a transformation to one or more of the original coordinates.
46. The system of claim 45, wherein the transformation is based on expert knowledge.
47. The system of claim 45, wherein the transformation is computationally derived.
48. The system of claim 45, wherein the training data set comprises a continuous variable; and wherein the transformation comprises optimally categorizing the continuous variable of the training data set.
49. The system of claim 41, wherein the test output comprises a continuous variable; and wherein post-processing the test output comprises optimally categorizing the continuous variable of the test data set.
50. The system of claim 41, wherein the knowledge to be discovered from the data relates to a regression or density estimation; wherein a training output comprises a continuous variable; and wherein the processor is further operable for post-processing the training output by optimally categorizing the continuous variable of the training output.
51. The system of claim 50, wherein optimally categorizing the training output comprises determining optimal cutoff points in the continuous variable based on entropy calculations.
52. The system of claim 41 , wherein the processor is further operable for: selecting a kemel for the support vector machine prior to training the support vector machine; in response to post-processing the test output, determining that the test output is not the optimal solution; adjusting the selection of the kernel; and in response to adjusting the selection of the kernel, retraining and retesting the support vector machine.
53. The system of claim 52, wherein the selection of a kernel is based on prior performance or historical data and is dependant on the nature of the knowledge to be discovered from the data or the nature of the data.
54. The system of claim 41, wherein a live data set is stored in the storage device; and wherein the processor is further operable for: in response to post-processing the test output, determining that the test output is the optimal solution, collecting the live data set from the storage device; pre-processing the live data set in the same manner as was the training data set; inputting the pre-processed live data set to the support vector machine for processing; and receiving the live output of the trained support vector machine.
55. The system of claim 54, wherein the processor is further operable for post-processing the live output by inteφreting the live output into a computationally derived alphanumerical classifier.
56. The system of claim 55, wherein the communications device is further operable to send the alphanumerical classifier to the remote source or another remote source.
57. A method for enhancing knowledge discovery using multiple support vector machines comprising: pre-processing a training data set to add meaning to each of a plurality of training data points; training each of a plurality of support vector machines using the pre-processed training data set, each support vector machine comprising a different kernel; pre-processing a test data set in the same manner as was the training data set; testing each of the plurality of trained support vector machines using the pre- processed test data set; and in response to receiving each of the test outputs from each of the plurality of trained support vector machines, comparing each of the test outputs with each other to determine which if any of the test output is an optimal solution.
58. A computer-readable medium having stored thereon computer- executable instructions for performing the method of claim 57.
59. The method of claim 57, wherein each training data point comprises a vector having one or more coordinates; and wherein pre-processing the training data set to add meaning to each training data point comprises: determining that the training data point is dirty; and in response to determining that the training data point is dirty, cleaning the training data point.
60. The method of claim 59, wherein cleaning the training data point comprises deleting, repairing or replacing the data point.
61. The method of claim 57, wherein each training data point comprises a vector having one or more original coordinates; and wherein pre-processing the training data set to add meaning to each training data point comprises adding dimensionality to each training data point by adding one or more new coordinates to the vector.
62. A computer-readable medium having stored thereon computer- executable instructions for performing the method of claim 61.
63. The method of claim 61, wherein the one or more new coordinates added to the vector are deπved by applying a transformation to one or more of the oπgmal coordinates.
64. The method of claim 63, wherein the transformation is based on expert knowledge.
65. The method of claim 7, wherein the transformation is computationally deπved.
66. The method of claim 24, wherein the training data set compπses a continuous vaπable; and wherein the transformation compπses optimally categoπzing the continuous vaπable of the training data set.
67. A computer-readable medium having stored thereon computer- executable instructions for performing the method of claim 10.
68. The method of claim 1, wherein compaπng each of the test outputs with each other compπses: post-processing each of the test outputs by mteφretmg each of the test outputs into a common format; compaπng each of the post-processed test outputs with each other to determine which of the test outputs represents a lowest global minimum error.
69. A computer-readable medium having stored thereon computer- executable instructions for performing the method of claim 12.
70. The method of claim 1, wherein the knowledge to be discovered from the data relates to a regression or density estimation; wherein each support vector machine produces a training output compπsmg a continuous vaπable; and wherein the method further compπses the step of post-processmg each of the training outputs by optimally categoπzing the training output to deπve cutoff points in the continuous vaπable.
71. The method of claim 1, further compπsing the steps of: in response to compaπng each of the test outputs with each other, determining that none of the test outputs is the optimal solution; adjusting the different kernels of one or more of the plurality of support vector machines; and in response to adjusting the selection of the different kernels, retraining and retesting each of the plurality of support vector machines.
72. A computer-readable medium having stored thereon computer- executable instructions for performing the method of claim 15
73. The method of claim 15, wherein adjusting the different kernels is performed based on pπor performance or histoπcal data and is dependant on the nature of the knowledge to be discovered from the data or the nature of the data.
74. The method of claim 1, further compπsing the steps of in response to compaπng each of the test outputs with each other, determining that a selected one of the test outputs is the optimal solution, the selected one of the test outputs produced by a selected one of the plurality of trained support vector machines compπsing a selected kemel; collecting a live data set; pre-processing the live data set in the same manner as was the training data set; inputting the pre-processed live data set into the selected trained support vector machine compπsing the selected kernel; and receiving the live output of the selected trained support vector machine.
75. A computer-readable medium having stored thereon computer- executable instructions for performing the method of claim 18.
76. The method of claim 18, further compπsing the step of post-processing the live output by inteφreting the live output into a computationally deπved alphanumeπcal classifier.
77. The method of claim 1, further comprising the steps of: in response to comparing each of the test outputs with each other, determining that a selected one of the test outputs is the optimal solution, the selected one of the test outputs produced by a selected one of the plurality of trained support vector machines comprising a selected kernel; collecting a live data set; pre-processing the live data set in the same manner as was the training data set; configuring two or more of the plurality of support vector machines for parallel processing based on the selected kernel; and inputting the pre-processed live data set into the support vector machines configured for parallel processing; and receiving the live output of the trained support vector machine.
78. A computer-readable medium having stored thereon computer- executable instructions for performing the method of claim 21.
79. A system for enhancing knowledge discovery using multiple support vector machines comprising: one or more storage devices for storing a training data set and a test data set; a plurality of processors each for executing one of a plurality a support vector machines, each of the support vector machines comprising a different kernel; a host processor for controlling the operation of each of the processors; the host processor further operable for: collecting the training data set from the database, pre-processing the training data set to add meaning to each of a plurality of training data points, inputting the pre-processed training data set into each of the support vector machines so as to train each of the support vector machines; in response to training of each of the support vector machines, collecting the test data set from the database, pre-processing the test data set in the same manner as was the training data set, inputting the test data set into each of the trained support vector machines in order to test each of the support vector machines, and in response to receiving each of the test outputs from each of the plurality of trained support vector machines, comparing each of the test outputs with each other to determine which if any of the test output is an optimal solution.
80. The system of claim 79, wherein each training data point comprises a vector having one or more coordinates; and wherein pre-processing the training data set to add meaning to each training data point comprises: determining that the training data point is dirty; and in response to determining that the training data point is dirty, cleaning the training data point.
81. The system of claim 80, wherein cleaning the training data point comprises deleting, repairing or replacing the data point.
82. The system of claim 79, wherein each training data point compπses a vector having one or more oπginal coordinates; and wherein pre-processing the training data set to add meaning to each training data point compπses adding dimensionality to each training data point by adding one or more new coordinates to the vector.
83. The system of claim 82, wherein the one or more new coordinates added to the vector are deπved by applying a transformation to one or more of the oπginal coordinates.
84. The system of claim 83, wherein the transformation is based on expert knowledge.
85. The system of claim 83, wherein the transformation is computationally deπved.
86. The system of claim 83, wherein the training data set compπses a continuous vaπable; and wherein the transformation compπses optimally categoπzing the continuous vaπable of the training data set.
87. The system of claim 79, wherein compaπng each of the test outputs with each other compπses: post-processing each of the test outputs by mteφreting each of the test outputs into a common format; compaπng each of the post-processed test outputs with each other to determine which of the test outputs represents a lowest global minimum error.
88. The system of claim 79, wherein the knowledge to be discovered from the data relates to a regression or density estimation; wherein each support vector machine produces a training output compπsmg a continuous variable; and wherein the host processor is further operable for post-processing each of the training outputs by optimally categoπzing the training output to derive cutoff points in the continuous variable.
89 The system of claim 79, wherein the host processor is further operable for: in response to compaπng each of the test outputs with each other, determining that none of the test outputs is the optimal solution, adjusting the different kernels of one or more of the plurality of support vector machines, and in response to adjusting the selection of the different kernels, retraining and retesting each of the plurality of support vector machines
90. The system of claim 89, wherein adjusting the different kernels is performed based on pπor performance or histoπcal data and is dependant on the nature of the knowledge to be discovered from the data or the nature of the data.
91 The system of claim 79, wherein the host processor is further operable for in response to compaπng each of the test outputs with each other, determining that a selected one of the test outputs is the optimal solution, the selected one of the test outputs produced by a selected one of the plurality of trained support vector machines compπsing a selected kernel; collecting a live data set; pre-processing the live data set in the same manner as was the training data set; inputting the pre-processed live data set into the selected trained support vector machine compπsmg the selected kemel; and receiving the live output of the selected trained support vector machine
92. The system of claim 91, wherein the host processor is further operable for post-processing the live output by inteφreting the live output into a computationally deπved alphanumeπcal classifier.
93. The system of claim 79, wherein the host processor is further operable for in response to compaπng each of the test outputs with each other, determining that a selected one of the test outputs is the optimal solution, the selected one of the test outputs produced by a selected one of the plurality of trained support vector machines compπsing a selected kernel; collecting a live data set, pre-processing the live data set the same manner as was the training data set; and inputting the pre-processed live data set into configuπng two or more of the plurality of support vector machines configured for parallel processing based on the selected kernel; and receiving the live output of the trained support vector machine.
94. A method for optimally categoπzing a continuous vaπable compπsing the steps of: receiving a data set compπsing a range of data points, each data point compπsing a sample from the continuous vaπable and a class identifier; determining the number of distinct class identifiers withm the data set; determining a number of candidate bins based on the range of the samples and a level of precision of the samples with the data set, each candidate bin representing a sub-range of the samples; for each candidate bin, calculating entropy of the data points falling within the candidate bin; and for each sequence of candidate bins that have a minimized collective entropy, defining a cutoff point in the range of samples to be at the boundary of the last candidate bin in the sequence of candidate bins.
95. A computer-readable medium having stored thereon computer- executable instructions for performing the method of claim 94.
96. The method of claim 94, further compπsing the step of in response to calculating the entropy of each candidate b , calculating the collective entropy for different combinations of sequential candidate bins.
97. A computer-readable medium having stored thereon computer- executable instructions for performing the method of claim 96.
98. The method of claim 96. further comprising the steps of: determining the number of defined cutoff points; adjusting the number of defined cutoff points; for each candidate bin, recalculating entropy of the data points falling within the candidate bin; and for each sequence of candidate bins that have a minimized collective entropy, redefining a cutoff point in the range of samples to be at the boundary of the last candidate bin in the sequence of candidate bins.
99. A computer-readable medium having stored thereon computer- executable instructions for performing the method of claim 98.
100. A system for enhancing knowledge discovery using a support vector machine compπsing a server in communication with a distπbuted network for receiving a training data set, a test data set, a live data set and a financial account identifier from a remote source, the remote source also in communication with the distπbuted network; one or more storage devices in communication with the server for stoπng the training data set and the test data set, a processor for executing a support vector machine, the processor further operable for: collecting the training data set from the one or more storage devices, pre-processing the training data set to add meaning to each of a plurality of training data points, inputting the pre-processed training data set into the support vector machine so as to train the support vector machine, in response to training of the support vector machine, collecting the test data set from the database, pre-processing the test data set in the same manner as was the training data set, inputting the test data set into the trained support vector machine in order to test the support vector machine, in response to receiving a test output from the trained support vector machine, collecting the live data set from the one or more storage devices, inputting the live data set into the tested and trained support vector machine m order to process the live data, in response to receiving a live output from the support vector machine, post- processing the live output to deπve a computationally based alpha numeπcal classifier, and transmitting the alphanumeπcal classifier to the server; wherein the server is further operable for: communicating with a financial institution in order to receive funds from a financial account identified by the financial account identifier, and in response to receiving the funds, transmitting the alphanumeπcal identifier to the remote source or another remote source.
101. The system of claim 100, wherein each training data point compπses a vector having one or more coordinates: and wherein pre-processing the training data set to add meaning to each training data point compπses: determining that the training data point is dirty; and in response to determining that the training data point is dirty, cleaning the training data point.
102. The system of claim 101, wherein cleaning the training data point compπses deleting, repaiπng or replacing the data point.
103 The system of claim 100, wherein each training data point compπses a vector having one or more oπgmal coordinates, and wherein pre-processing the training data set to add meaning to each training data point compπses adding dimensionality to each training data point by adding one or more new coordinates to the vector.
104. The system of claim 103, wherein the one or more new coordinates added to the vector are deπved by applying a transformation to one or more of the oπginal coordinates.
105. The system of claim 104, wherein the transformation is based on expert knowledge.
106. The system of claim 104, wherein the transformation is computationally deπved.
107. The system of claim 104, wherein the training data set compπses a continuous vaπable; and wherein the transformation compπses optimally categoπzing the continuous vaπable of the training data set.
108. The system of claim 100, wherein the knowledge to be discovered from the data relates to a regression or density estimation; wherein the support vector machine produces a training output comprising a continuous variable; and wherein the processor is further operable for post-processing the training output by optimally categorizing the training output to derive cutoff points in the continuous variable.
109. The system of claim 100, wherein the processor is further operable for: in response to comparing each of the test outputs with each other, determining that none of the test outputs is the optimal solution; adjusting the different kernels of one or more of the plurality of support vector machines; and in response to adjusting the selection of the different kernels, retraining and retesting each of the plurality of support vector machines.