TITLE:
METHOD FOR ACHIEVING IMPROVED EPITAXY QUALITY (SURFACE TEXTURE AND DEFECT DENSITY) ON FREE-STANDING (ALUMINUM, INDIUM, GALLIUM) NITRIDE ((Al,In,Ga)N) SUBSTRATES FOR OPTO-ELECTRONIC AND ELECTRONIC DEVICES

TYPE:
World International Patent Organisation

ABSTRACT:
A III-V nitride homoepitaxial microelectronic device structure comprising a III-V nitride homoepitaxial epi layer on a III-V nitride material substrate, e.g., of freestanding character. Various processing techniques are described, including a method of forming a III-V nitride homoepitaxial layer on a corresponding III-V nitride material substrate, by depositing the III-V nitride homoepitaxial layer by a VPE process using Group III source material and nitrogen source material under process conditions including V/III ratio in a range of from about 1 to about 105, nitrogen source material partial pressure in a range of from about 1 to about 103 torr, growth temperature in a range of from about 500 to about 1250 degrees Celsius, and growth rate in a range of from about 0.1 to about 500 microns per hour. The III-V nitride homoepitaxial microelectronic device structures are usefully employed in device applications such as UV LEDs, high electron mobility transistors, and the like.

CLAIMS:
1. A method of forming a III-V nitride homoepitaxial layer on a corresponding III- V nitride material substrate, comprising depositing the III-V nitride homoepitaxial layer by a VPE process using Group III source material and nitrogen source material under deposition conditions including V/III ratio in a range of from about 1 to about 105, nifrogen source material partial pressure in a range of from about 1 to about 103 torr, growth temperature in a range of from about 500 to about 1250 degrees Celsius, and growth rate in a range of from about 0.1 micron per hour to about 500 microns per hour.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein the III-V nitride homoepitaxial layer comprises a nitride compound selected from the group consisting of AIN, AlInN, AlGaN,
AlInGaN, InN, InGaN, and GaN.
The method of claim 1, wherein the III-V nitride homoepitaxial layer comprises GaN.
4. The method of claim 1, wherein the III-V nitride material substrate is a freestanding subsfrate.
5. The method of claim 1, wherein the III-V nitride material substrate is a free- standing finished substrate.
6. The method of claim 1, wherein the III-V nitride material subsfrate is a freestanding unfinished subsfrate.
The method of claim 1, wherein the III-V nitride material subsfrate is a freestanding chemical mechanical polished substrate.
8. The method of claim 1, wherein prior to the depositing step, the substrate is subjected to heat-up in an ambient to a temperature in said growth temperature range, wherein said ambient includes one or more species selected from the group consisting of hydrogen, nitrogen, argon, helium, neon, hydrogen chloride, and mixtures of two or more of the foregoing.
The method of claim 1, wherein the growth temperature is in a range of from about 1000 to about 1250 degrees Celsius.
10. The method of claim 1, wherein the growth temperature is > 1050 degrees Celsius.
11. The method of claim 1, wherein the growth temperature is substantially about 1050 degrees Celsius.
12. The method of claim 1, where the homoepitaxial layer is at least 0.5 microns in thickness.
13. The method of claim 1, where the homoepitaxial layer is at least 3.0 microns in thickness.
14. The method of claim 13, wherein the III-V nitride material substrate is a freestanding unfinished substrate.
15. The method of claim 1, wherein said process conditions include V/III ratio of from about 101 to about 105.
16. The method of claim 1, wherein said process conditions include V/III ratio of greater than about 104.
17. The method of claim 1, wherein said process conditions include V/III ratio of from about 103 to about 5 x 104, nitrogen source material partial pressure of from about 20 to about 400 torr, growth temperature of from about 1000 to about 1150 degrees Celsius, and growth rate of from about 0.5 to about 10 microns per hour.
18. The method of claim 1, wherein said VPE process comprises an MOVPE process.
19. The method of claim 1, wherein the subsfrate has a crystallographic orientation selected from the group consisting of (0001), (000 1 ), and offcuts thereof.
20. The method of claim 1, wherein the subsfrate has a crystallographic orientation selected from the group consisting of {0001}, {1120}, {1 1 00}, and offcuts therefrom.
21. The method of claim 1, wherein the substrate is GaN and the epitaxial layer is deposited on the Ga face of the subsfrate.
22. The method of claim 1, wherein the substrate is GaN and the epitaxial layer is deposited on the N face of the substrate.
23. The method of claim 1, wherein said VPE process comprises an HVPE process.
24. The method of claim 1, wherein the III-V nitride material substrate is heated up to growth temperature in a heat-up effecting one or more of the steps of:
(a) smoothing a deposition surface of the substrate;
(b) removing damage on a deposition surface of the subsfrate;
(c) removing contaminants on a deposition surface of the substrate;
(d) reducing defect propagation at an interface of the III-V nifride homoepitaxial layer and the substrate in said depositing step;
(e) eliminating new defect formation at an interface of the III-V nitride homoepitaxial layer and the substrate in said depositing step;
(f) reducing electrically active defects in said III-V nitride homoepitaxial layer or substrate;
(g) reducing subsfrate impurity outgassing in said depositing step; and (h) compensating charge at a homoepitaxial layer/substrate interface.
25. The method of claim 24, wherein said heat-up comprises process conditions including nifrogen source material partial pressure in a range of from about 1 to about 1000 torr, ramp time in a range of from about 1 to about 1000 minutes, ramp rates in a range of from about 10 to about 1000 degrees Celsius per minute, and an ambient including one or more species selected from the group consisting of hydrogen, nitrogen, argon, helium, neon, hydrogen chloride, and mixtures of two or more of the foregoing.
26. The method of claim 24, wherein said heat-up comprises process conditions including nifrogen source material partial pressure in a range of from about 10 to about 400torr, ramp time in a range of from about 1 to about 100 minutes, ramp rates in a range of from about 100 to about 400 degrees Celsius per minute, and an ambient including one or more species selected from the group consisting of hydrogen, nifrogen, argon, helium, neon, hydrogen chloride, and mixtures of two or more of the foregoing.
27. The method of claim 1, wherein said III-V nitride homoepitaxial layer is deposited in said depositing step on a deposition surface of the substrate having a crystallographic orientation that is offcut from (0001).
28. The method of claim 27, wherein the offcut defines an offcut angle in the range of from 0.1 to 10 degrees from (0001).
29. The method of claim 1, wherein said III-V nifride homoepitaxial layer is deposited in said depositing step on a deposition surface of the subsfrate having an offcut direction towards the <1120> direction.
30. The method of claim 1, wherein said III-V nitride homoepitaxial layer is deposited in said depositing step on a deposition surface of the substrate having an offcut direction towards the <10 10> direction.
31. The method of claim 1, wherein said III-V nitride homoepitaxial layer is deposited in said depositing step on a deposition surface of the subsfrate having an offcut direction between <1120> and <10 1 0>.
32. The method of claim 1, wherein the III-V nitride material substrate is cleaned with an aqueous acid cleaning composition before said depositing step.
33. The method of claim 1, wherein the III-V nitride material substrate is cleaned with an aqueous basic cleaning composition before said depositing step.
34. The method of claim 1, wherein the III-V nitride material substrate is cleaned to remove NEUC1 from the substrate before said depositing step.
35. The method of claim 1, wherein the III-V nitride material subsfrate is transformed into a dissimilar compound on a deposition surface thereof and dissimilar compound is stripped, before said depositing step.
36. The method of claim 1, wherein the III-V nitride material subsfrate is oxidized on a deposition surface thereof and resulting oxide is selectively stripped, before said depositing step.
37. The method of claim 1, wherein the III-V nifride material subsfrate is oxidized for smoothing of the substrate before said depositing step.
38. The method of claim 1, wherein the III-V nitride material substrate is cleaned by RIE before said depositing step.
39. The method of claim 1, wherein said III-V nifride homoepitaxial layer is deposited in said depositing step on a deposition surface exposed by RIE or wet etch before said depositing step.
40. The method of claim 1, further comprising impurity addition in said depositing step.
41. The method of claim 1 , further comprising a multi-step smoothing process.
42. The method of claim 1, further comprising a backside evaporative protection process.
43. The process of claim 42, wherein the backside evaporative protection process comprises applying to the subsfrate a material protecting a backside surface of the substrate from evaporation.
44. The process of claim 42, wherein the backside evaporative protection process comprises polishing a backside surface of the substrate.
45. The process of claim 42, wherein the backside evaporative protection process comprises chemical etching.
46. The process of claim 45, wherein the chemical etching comprises exposing a backside surface of the substrate to a hot acid or a hot base.
47. The method of claim 1, comprising applying an epi interlayer to a deposition surface of the subsfrate before depositing the III-V nitride homoepitaxial layer.
48. The process of claim 47, wherein the epi interlayer comprises different lattice- matched or lattice-mismatched (Al,In,Ga)N compounds.
49. The method of claim 1, comprising applying an epi interlayer to a deposition surface of the subsfrate before depositing the III-V nitride homoepitaxial layer, whereby moφhology of the homoepitaxial layer is improved, dislocation defects are reduced, in relation to a corresponding process lacking applying of said epi interlayer to the deposition surface.
50. The method of claim 1, comprising annealing the substrate before depositing the III-V nifride homoepitaxial layer.
51. The method of claim 1, further comprising applying a surfactant to a deposition surface of the subsfrate for nucleation of the III-V nitride homoepitaxial layer thereon.
52. The method of claim 1, further comprising conducting a mass fransport process to produce a smoothed moφhology of the III-V nitride homoepitaxial layer.
53. The method of claim 1, wherein the III-V nitride material subsfrate before said depositing step is subjected to a freatment selected from the group consisting of polishing and etching.
54. The method of claim 1, wherein the III-V nifride material substrate before said depositing step is subjected to a masking freatment for masking of defects in the subsfrate, and said depositing step effects defect overgrowth and elimination.
55. The method of claim 1, wherein said depositing step is carried out in a growth environment, and a surfactant is added to the growth environment during said depositing step.
56. The method of claim 1, further comprising forming a mesa in the III-V nifride material subsfrate before said depositing step and depositing said III-V nitride homoepitaxial layer on or laterally from said mesa.
57. The method of claim 56, wherein said mesa is of sufficient area to enable crystallographic propagation termination and dislocation termination in said depositing step.
58. The method of claim 56, further comprising masking an area around said mesa to prevent growth thereon during said depositing step.
59. The method of claim 56, further comprising etching an area around said mesa to contain growth in said area during said depositing step.
60. The method of claim 1, wherein the III-V nitride homoepitaxial layer and corresponding III-V nifride material subsfrate, each comprise GaN.
61. The method of claim 1, wherein the III-V nitride homoepitaxial layer and corresponding III-V nifride material substrate, each comprise AlGaN.
62. The method of claim 1, wherein the III-V nitride homoepitaxial layer and corresponding III-V nitride material subsfrate, each comprise AlInGaN.
63. The method of claim 1, wherein the substrate comprises free-standing GaN and the epitaxial layer is deposited by HVPE.
64. The method of claim 1, wherein the epitaxial layer is doped n-type, p-type or semi-insulating.
65. The method of claim 1, wherein the subsfrate is free-standing GaN, having a finished or unfinished character, and wherein the homoepitaxial layer is selected from the group consisting of AlGaN, InGaN and AlInGaN, InN, GaN, AIN.
66. The method of claim 1, wherein the layer and subsfrate have a sheet resistance greater than 1E5 ohms per square centimeter.
67. The method of claim 1, where the layer and substrate have a sheet resistance greater than 1E4 ohms per square centimeter.
68. A method of forming a III-V nitride homoepitaxial layer on a corresponding III- V nifride material subsfrate, comprising depositing the III-V nitride homoepitaxial layer by a VPE process using Group III source material and nitrogen source material, wherein the subsfrate is reposed on a susceptor surface during said depositing step, said method further comprising coating said susceptor surface with a corresponding III-V nitride material prior to reposing the subsfrate thereon for said depositing step.
69. A method of forming a III-V nitride homoepitaxial layer on a corresponding III- V nifride material substrate, comprising depositing the III-V nifride homoepitaxial layer by a VPE process using Group III source material and nitrogen source material, and including an anneal step in an ambient prior to said depositing step at a temperature > 600 degrees Celsius to relieve the sfrain in the layer, with the ambient of the anneal being different from that of said depositing step to protect the subsfrate surface and promote subsfrate sfrain relaxation.
70. A method of forming a III-V nitride homoepitaxial layer on a corresponding unfinished III-V nitride material subsfrate, comprising depositing the III-V nifride homoepitaxial layer by a VPE process using Group III source material and nifrogen source material, wherein the substrate is subjected to a mass fransport smoothing of a growth surface of said substrate wherein said mass transport smoothing comprises one of Method 1, Method 2, Method 3 and Method 4.
71. A method of forming a III-V nitride homoepitaxial layer on a corresponding unfinished III-V nitride material subsfrate, comprising depositing the III-V nitride homoepitaxial layer in a growth ambient, by an HVPE process using Group III source material and nitrogen source material, with addition of surfactant into the growth ambient of the reactor during said depositing, to facilitate and enhance the smoothing of the subsfrate.
72. A method of forming a III-V nitride homoepitaxial layer on a corresponding unfinished III-V nifride material subsfrate, comprising depositing the III-V nitride homoepitaxial layer by a VPE process using Group III source material and nitrogen source material, wherein the substrate comprises FS (Al,In,Ga)N and said substrate is conditioned for said depositing, by oxidizing the FS
(Al,In,Ga)N subsfrate in O2, air, an air/inert gas mixture, or a wet mixture to create a thin oxide layer, and stripping the oxide layer in an alkali solution or etch removing same, to remove potential impurities from the subsfrate.
73. A method of forming a III-V nitride homoepitaxial layer on a corresponding unfinished III-V nitride material substrate, comprising depositing the III-V nitride homoepitaxial layer by a VPE process using Group III source material and nitrogen source material, wherein the homoepitaxial layer is doped, but wherein said doping is paused during a portion of said depositing, to form a film thickness of undoped material in said homoepitaxial layer of a sufficient thickness to eliminate interrupted moφhology in growth of said homoepitaxial layer.
74. A III-V nitride homoepitaxial material made by a process as in claim 1.
75. A III-V nitride homoepitaxial material made by a process as in claim 1 with <1E6 dislocations per square centimeter.
76. A homoepitaxial III-V nifride article, comprising a III-V nifride homoepitaxial layer on a FS III-V nitride material subsfrate, with <1E6 dislocations per square centimeter.
77. The article of claim 76, wherein each of said homoepitaxial layer and subsfrate comprises AlGaN.
78. The article of claim 76, without contamination at an interface between said homoepitaxial layer and said subsfrate.
79. A III-V nitride homoepitaxial microelectronic device structure comprising a III- V nitride homoepitaxial epi layer on a FS III-V nitride material substrate.
80. The III-V nitride homoepitaxial microelectronic device structure of claim 79, wherein the III-V nitride homoepitaxial epi layer comprises non (0001) homoepitaxial step flow crystal growth.
81. The III-V nifride homoepitaxial microelectronic device structure of claim 79, wherein the III-V nitride homoepitaxial epi layer has a <1120> offcut direction.
82. The III-V nitride homoepitaxial microelectronic device structure of claim 79, wherein the III-V nitride homoepitaxial epi layer has a <10 10> offcut direction.
83. The III-V nifride homoepitaxial microelectronic device structure of claim 79, wherein the III-V nifride homoepitaxial epi layer has an offcut direction between <1120> and <lθTθ>.
84. The III-V nitride homoepitaxial microelectronic device structure of claim 79, wherein the subsfrate is finished.
85. The III-V nifride homoepitaxial microelectronic device structure of claim 79, wherein the subsfrate is unfinished.
86. The III-V nifride homoepitaxial microelectronic device structure of claim 79, wherein the III-V nifride homoepitaxial epi layer comprises a lattice-matched
AlInGaN epi layer.
87. The III-V nifride homoepitaxial microelectronic device structure of claim 79, wherein the substrate comprises FS GaN with a graded AlGaN layer thereon.
88. The III-V nifride homoepitaxial microelecfronic device structure of claim 79, having a dislocation density <5e8 per cm2.
89. The III-V nifride homoepitaxial microelectronic device structure of claim 79, having a dislocation density <5e7 per cm2.
90. The III-V nitride homoepitaxial microelectronic device structure of claim 79, having a dislocation density <5E6 per cm2.
91. The III-V nitride homoepitaxial microelectronic device structure of claim 79, wherein said substrate comprises GaN, and the III-V nifride homoepitaxial epi layer is deposited on a Ga face of said subsfrate.
92. The III-V nitride homoepitaxial microelecfronic device structure of claim 79, wherein the III-V nifride homoepitaxial epi layer is deposited on a N face of the subsfrate.
93. A microelecfronic device comprising a III-V nitride homoepitaxial microelectronic device structure as in claim 79.
94. The microelectronic device of claim 93, comprising a UV LED.
95. The microelectronic device of claim 93, comprising an AlGaN/GaN high electron mobility transistors (HEMT).
96. The microelecfronic device of claim 93, comprising a laser diode.
97. A system comprising the microelectronic device of claim 93.
98. An epitaxial growth reactor comprising a susceptor with a CTE-matched coating thereon to prolong operating life of the susceptor.