--- PAGE 1 ---
MAIN REQUEST
CLAIMS

1. A method of delivering and reporting delivery of targeted assets to
viewers of a broadcast network, the method comprising the steps of operating a
processor at a subscriber device (10):
to determine, in real-time, an audience gender value representative of
the likelihood that a current audience at the subscriber device has a given
gender by, at regular intervals,
determining a program being watched,
determining, from a table at the subscriber device, an audience
composition value for the program being watched, wherein the table lists
programs and, for each entry in the table, an audience composition value
determined from ratings data of the gender composition of the viewers for
a given program, and
updating an audience gender value from a previous audience
gender value, the audience composition value and a decay constant
based on sampling period;
to receive broadcast information directed to network viewers, the
broadcast information including a plurality of assets and asset-related
information including target criteria for each of the assets, a said target criterion
being a gender constraint based on whether the audience gender value is
greater or less than a given value;
to select when to deliver an asset from the plurality of assets at the
subscriber device based on a comparison, conducted at the subscriber device,
of the updated audience gender value and the target criteria for the assets,
wherein the asset played at the subscriber device is determined by matching
the updated audience gender value to the gender constraint; and
to transmit report information from the subscriber device to a platform of
said broadcast network, said report information identifying the asset delivered
by the subscriber device.

33

--- PAGE 2 ---
2. The method of Claim 1, comprising determining by the processor in real-
time a female audience gender value and a male audience gender value,
wherein updating an audience gender value comprises updating the female
audience gender value and the male audience gender value according to the
equations

F’ = (k*F) + (1-k)*C’,

M’ = (k*M) + (1-k)*(1-C’),

where F’ is an updated female audience gender value, F is a previous
female audience gender value, M’ is an updated male audience gender value,
M is a previous male audience gender value, C’ is audience composition value,

and k is a decay constant based on sampling period.

3. The method of Claim 1 or Claim 2, wherein the table lists programs,
categories and genres, each entry in the table providing a said audience
composition value, and wherein, where the processor cannot find the program
being watched in the table, the processor attempts to lookup the program
category or genre in the table to determine the audience composition value, the
processor being operable to derive the category and genre information from an
electronic program guide at the subscriber device.

4. The method of any one of the preceding claims, further comprising the
step of storing the asset for a period of time at the subscriber device between

the receipt of the asset and the delivery of the asset.

5. The method of any one of the preceding claims, in which the step of
transmitting report information comprises the step of forwarding an asset
delivery notification from the subscriber device to a privacy manager system
component (16) of a service provider, in which the asset delivery notification
contains information specific to the subscriber, the method further comprising
forwarding, by the privacy manager system component of the service

provider, information from the asset delivery notification to an information

34

--- PAGE 3 ---
manager system component (20) of the service provider after removing the
information specific to the subscriber.

6. The method of Claim 5, further comprising a step of compiling, by the
information manager system component of the service provider, information on

asset delivery from plural subscribers.

7. The method of Claim 6, further comprising a step of delivering, by the
information manager system component of the service provider, compiled

information on asset delivery to a user.

8. The method of any one of the preceding claims, wherein said asset and

said target criteria are received at different times.

9. A subscriber device (10) for use in delivery and reporting of the delivery
of targeted assets to viewers of a broadcast network, the subscriber device
being connected to a broadcast network and configured:
to include a real-time profiler (12), said real-time profiler being operative
to determine, in real-time, an audience gender value representative of the
likelihood that a current audience at the subscriber device has a given gender
by, at regular intervals,
determining a program being watched,
determining, from a table at the subscriber device, an audience
composition value for the program being watched, wherein the table lists
programs and, for each entry in the table, an audience composition value
determined from ratings data of the gender composition of the viewers for
a given program, and
updating an audience gender value from a previous audience
gender value, the audience composition value and a decay constant
based on sampling period; and;
the subscriber device further being configured to include a targeter (14)

configured

35

--- PAGE 4 ---
to receive broadcast information directed to network viewers, the
broadcast information including a plurality of assets and asset-related
information including target criteria for each of the assets, a said target
criterion being a gender constraint based on whether the audience
gender value is greater or less than a given value;

to select when to deliver an asset from the plurality of assets at the
subscriber device based on a comparison, conducted at the subscriber
device, of the updated audience gender value and the target criteria for
the assets, wherein the asset played at the subscriber device is
determined by matching the updated audience gender value to the
gender constraint; and

to transmit report information from the subscriber device to a
platform of said broadcast network, said report information identifying the
asset delivered by the subscriber device.

10. The subscriber device of Claim 9, wherein the real-time profiler is
operable to determine in real-time a female audience gender value and a male
audience gender value and is operable to update the female audience gender
value and the male audience gender value according to the equations

F’ = (k*F) + (1-k)*C’,

M’ = (k*M) + (1-k)*(1-C’),

where F’ is an updated female audience gender value, F is a previous
female audience gender value, M’ is an updated male audience gender value,
M is a previous male audience gender value, C’ is audience composition value,

and k is a decay constant based on sampling period.

11. The subscriber device of Claim 9 or Claim 10, wherein the table lists
programs, categories and genres, each entry in the table providing a said
audience composition value, and wherein, where the real time profiler cannot
find the program being watched in the table, the real-time profiler is operable to
look up the program category or genre in the table to determine the audience
composition value, the real-time profiler being operable to derive the category

36

--- PAGE 5 ---
and genre information from an electronic program guide at the subscriber
device.

12. |The subscriber device of any one of Claims 9 to 11, wherein the targeter
is configured to store the asset for a period of time at the subscriber device
between the receipt of the asset and the delivery of the asset.

13. A system comprising the subscriber device of any one of Claims 9 to 12,
a privacy manager system component (16) of a service provider and an
information manager component (20) of the service provider, wherein:

the subscriber device is configured to forward an asset delivery
notification from the subscriber device to the privacy manager system
component of the service provider in which the asset delivery notification
contains information specific to the subscriber and

the privacy manager system component of the service provider is
configured to forward information from the asset delivery notification to the
information manager system component of the service provider after removing
the information specific to the subscriber.

14. The system of Claim 13, wherein the information manager system
component of the service provider is configured to compile information on asset

delivery from plural subscriber devices.
15. The system of Claim 14, wherein the information manager system

component of the service provider delivers compiled information on asset

delivery to a user.

37