Title: 
System and method for inserting local content into programming content

Abstract: 
A system for communicating a programming data stream and a data stream containing pieces of local content data that are going to be inserted into a local content space in the programming data stream at some predetermined time is provided in which the programming data stream and the local content digital data stream are transmitted to a set-top box in a house of a user, the set-top box stores a predetermined portion of the pieces of local content data based on predetermined criteria, and the set-top box identifies a local content space in the programming data stream. The set-top box may also select a particular piece of local content from the storing system to insert into the local content space in the programming data stream based on a plurality of predetermined preferences of the user, retrieve that selected piece of local content from said storage means, and insert that selected piece of local content into said programming data stream at said local content space so that individualized local content specific to the user of the set-top box is inserted into the programming data stream.

Type: 
US Patent

Claims: 
We claim:
1. A system for communicating programming and local content data that are to be inserted into a local content space in a programming data stream at a predetermined time, the system comprising:
means for transmitting the programming and the local content data to a set-top box in a house of a user;
means, in the set-top box, for storing a predetermined portion of the local content data based on predetermined criteria;
means, in the set-top box, for identifying a local content space in the programming;
means, in the set-top box, for selecting a particular piece of local content from the storing means to insert into the local content space in the programming based on a plurality of predetermined preferences;
means for retrieving said selected piece of local content from said storage means; and
means for inserting said selected piece of local content into said programming data stream at said local content space so that individualized local content specific to the user of the set-top box is inserted into the programming data stream.
2. The system of claim 1, wherein said transmitting means comprises means for transmitting the local content data in the spare bandwidth not used by the programming data.
3. The system of claim 1, wherein said transmission means comprises means for transmitting said local content data at a predetermined time.
4. The system of claim 1, wherein said set-top box further comprises a first receiver for said programming data and a second receiver for the local content data so that the local content data is transmitted simultaneously with said programming data.
5. The system of claim 1, wherein said predetermined criteria comprises user preference signals.
6. The system of claim 5, wherein said selecting means further comprises means for comparing a content profile of each piece of local content data to a control signal within the local content space of the programming data.
7. The system of claim 1 further comprising means for receiving information about the viewing of the programming data and local content data and means for processing the received information to generate data about the users.
8. The system of claim 1, wherein said transmitting means comprises a satellite.
9. The system of claim 1, wherein said transmitting means comprises a cable.
10. The system of claim 1, wherein the transmitting means comprises a terrestrial broadcast system.
11. The system of claim 1, wherein the transmitting means comprises a wireless cable broadcast system.
12. The system of claim 1, wherein said transmitting means comprises a computer network.
13. The system of claim 1, wherein said programming data and said local content are compressed digital data streams.
14. The system of claim 13, wherein said inserting means further comprises means for splicing two Motion Pictures Experts Group data streams together.
15. The system of claim 1, wherein said programming data and said local content are analog data streams.
16. The system of claim 1, wherein the predetermined preferences comprise user preferences.
17. The system of claim 1, wherein the predetermined preferences comprise preferences of an operator of the system.
18. A method for communicating programming and local content data to be inserted into a local content space in the programming data stream at a predetermined time, the method comprising:
transmitting the programming and the local content data to a set-top box in a house of a user;
storing a predetermined portion of the pieces of local content data in the set-top box based on predetermined criteria;
identifying a local content space in the programming data stream;
selecting a particular piece of local content stored in the set-top box to insert into the local content space in the programming data stream based on a plurality of predetermined preferences;
retrieving said selected piece of local content; and
inserting said selected piece of local content into said programming data stream at said local content space so that individualized local content specific to the user of the set-top box is inserted into the programming data stream.
19. The method of claim 18, wherein said transmission comprises transmitting the local content data in the spare bandwidth not used by the programming data.
20. The method of claim 18, wherein said transmission comprises transmitting said local content data at a predetermined time.
21. The method of claim 18, wherein said set-top box further comprises using a first receiver for said programming data and using a second receiver for the local content data so that the local content data is transmitted simultaneously with said programming data.
22. The method of claim 18, wherein said predetermined criteria comprises user preference signals.
23. The method claim 22, wherein said selecting further comprises comparing a content profile of each piece of local content data to a control signal within the local content space of the programming data.
24. The method of claim 18 further comprising receiving information about the viewing of the programming data and local content data and processing the received information to generate data about the users.
25. The method of claim 18, wherein said transmitting means comprises using a satellite.
26. The method of claim 18, wherein said transmission comprises using a cable.
27. The method of claim 18, wherein said transmission comprises using a computer network.
28. The method of claim 18, wherein said transmission comprises using a terrestrial broadcast system.
29. The method of claim 18, wherein said transmission comprises using a wireless cable system.
30. The method of claim 18, wherein said programming data and said local content are compressed digital data streams.
31. The method of claim 30, wherein said insertion further comprises splicing two Motion Pictures Experts Group data streams together.
32. The method of claim 18, wherein said programming data and said local content are analog data streams.
33. The method of claim 18, wherein said predetermined preferences comprise user preferences.
34. The method of claim 18, wherein said predetermined preferences comprise preferences of an operator of the system.
35. An apparatus for displaying images from a programming data stream and a data stream containing pieces of local content data that are going to be inserted into a local content space in the programming data stream at some predetermined time, the apparatus comprising:
means for receiving the programming data stream and the pieces of local content data;
means for storing a predetermined portion of the received pieces of the local content data based a predetermined criteria;
means for identifying a local content space in the programming data stream;
means for selecting a particular piece of local content to insert into the local content space in the programming data stream based on a plurality of predetermined preferences of a user;
means for retrieving said selected piece of local content from said storage means; and
means for inserting said selected piece of local content into said programming data stream at said local content space so that individualized local content is inserted into the programming data stream.
36. The apparatus of claim 35, wherein said receiving means comprises means for receiving the local content data in the spare bandwidth not used by the programming data.
37. The apparatus of claim 35, wherein said receiving means comprises means for receiving said local content data at a predetermined time.
38. The apparatus of claim 35 further comprises a first receiver for said programming data and a second receiver for the local content data so that the local content data is transmitted simultaneously with said programming data.
39. The apparatus of claim 35, wherein said predetermined criteria comprises user preference signals.
40. The apparatus of claim 39, wherein said selecting means further comprises means for comparing a content profile of each piece of local content data to a control signal within the local content space of the programming data.
41. The apparatus of claim 35, wherein said programming data and said local content are compressed digital data streams.
42. The apparatus of claim 41, wherein said inserting means further comprises means for splicing two Motion Pictures Experts Group data streams together.
43. The apparatus of claim 35, wherein said programming data and said local content are analog data streams.
44. A method for displaying images from a programming data stream and a data stream containing pieces of local content data that are going to be inserted into a local content space in the programming data stream at some predetermined time, the method comprising:
receiving the programming data stream and the pieces of local content data;
storing a predetermined portion of the received pieces of the local content data based a predetermined criteria;
identifying a local content space in the programming data stream;
selecting a particular piece of local content to insert into the local content space in the programming data stream based on a plurality of predetermined preferences of a user;
retrieving said selected piece of local content from said storage means; and
inserting said selected piece of local content into said programming data stream at said local content space so that individualized local content is inserted into the programming data stream.
45. The method of claim 44, wherein said receiving comprises receiving the local content data in the spare bandwidth not used by the programming data.
46. The method of claim 44, wherein said receiving comprises receiving said local content data at a predetermined time.
47. The method of claim 44 further comprises using a first receiver for said programming data and using a second receiver for the local content data so that the local content data is transmitted simultaneously with said programming data.
48. The method of claim 44, wherein said predetermined criteria comprises user preference signals.
49. The method of claim 48, wherein said selecting further comprises comparing a content profile of each piece of local content data to a control signal within the local content space of the programming data.
50. The method of claim 44, wherein said programming data and said local content are compressed digital data streams.
51. The method of claim 50, wherein said inserting further comprises splicing two Motion Pictures Experts Group data streams together.
52. The method of claim 44, wherein said programming data and said local content are analog data str