Title: Thermal/environmental barrier coating system for silicon-containing materials

Abstract: 
A coating system for Si-containing materials, particularly those for articles exposed to high temperatures. The coating system exhibits improved resistance to corrosion from sea salt and CMAS as a result of using aluminate compounds to protect silicate-containing layers of the coating system. The coating system includes an environmental barrier coating, a thermal barrier coating overlying the environmental barrier coating and formed of a thermal-insulating material, and a transition layer between the environmental barrier coating and thermal barrier coating, wherein the transition layer contains at least one aluminate compound and/or alumina.

Type: US Patent

Claims: 
1. A coating system on an article having a substrate formed of a silicon-containing material, the coating system comprising:
a silicate-containing coating overlying the substrate and containing at least one silicate susceptible to corrosion;
a thermal barrier coating overlying the silicate-containing coating and formed of a thermal-insulating material having a coefficient of thermal expansion (CTE) different than the silicate-containing coating; and
means for providing corrosion protection to the at least one silicate of the silicate-containing coating and providing a CTE mismatch-abating transition between the silicate-containing coating and the thermal-insulating material, the providing means being free of silicates and consisting essentially of at least one aluminate compound and/or alumina and optionally containing the thermal-insulating material, the at least one aluminate compound being chosen from the group consisting of YAlO3, Y3Al5O12, NbAlO4, TaAlO4, SrAl2O4, CaAl2O4, CaAl4O7, SrLaAlO3, MgAl2O4, ScAlO3, and rare earth aluminate compounds. compounds;
2. A coating system according to claim 1, wherein the substrate is formed of a material selected from the group consisting of metal silicide alloys, metal matrix composites reinforced with silicon carbide, silicon nitride and/or silicon, composites having a matrix of silicon carbide, silicon nitride and/or silicon, and composites with a silicon carbide, silicon nitride and/or silicon matrix reinforced with silicon carbide, silicon nitride and/or silicon.
3. A coating system according to claim 1, further comprising at least one bond coat layer on the substrate, the at least one bond coat layer being formed of at least one of silicon, silicates, and/or mixtures of silicates and aluminosilicates.
4. A coating system according to claim 1, wherein the providing means contains by weight at least 50% of the at least one aluminate compound.
5. A coating system according to claim 1, wherein the providing means contains by weight at least 90% of the at least one aluminate compound.
6. A coating system according to claim 1, wherein the providing means consists of a transition layer between and contacting the silicate-containing layer and the thermal barrier coating.
7. A coating system according to claim 1, wherein the providing means consists of the at least one aluminate compound, the thermal-insulating material of the thermal barrier coating, and alumina.
8. A coating system according to claim 1, wherein the silicate-containing coating contains an alkaline earth metal aluminosilicate.
9. A coating system according to claim 1, wherein the silicate-containing coating consists essentially of barium strontium aluminosilicate.
10. A coating system according to claim 1, wherein the silicate-containing coating contains at least one aluminate compound.
11. A coating system according to claim 1, wherein the providing means consists of the at least one aluminate compound.
12. A coating system according to claim 1, wherein the providing means consists of the thermal-insulating material of the thermal barrier coating and the at least one aluminate compound.
13. A coating system according to claim 12, wherein the thermal-insulating material of the thermal barrier coating consists essentially of yttria-stabilized zirconia optionally with additions of one or more rare earth oxides.
14. A coating system according to claim 1, wherein the thermal barrier coating consists essentially of yttria-stabilized zirconia optionally with additions of one or more rare earth oxides.
15. A coating system according to claim 1, wherein the providing means is a substantially homogeneous transition layer containing two or more of the at least one aluminate compound, alumina, and the thermal-insulating material, and the CTE of the providing means is a value between the CTE's of the thermal-insulating material and the silicate-containing coating.
16. A coating system according to claim 1, wherein the providing means is a compositionally graded transition layer containing two or more of the at least one aluminate compound, alumina, and the thermal-insulating material, and the transition layer has a gradually increasing CTE with a minium CTE value adjacent the silicate-containing coating and a maximum CTE value adjacent the thermal barrier coating.
17. A coating system according to claim 1, wherein the article is a component of a gas turbine engine.
18. A gas turbine engine component comprising:
a substrate formed of a silicon-containing material;
at least one silicon-containing bond coat on the substrate;
an environmental barrier coating on the bond coat and containing at least one silicate susceptible to corrosion;
a thermal barrier coating overlying the environmental barrier coating, the thermal barrier coating being formed of a thermal-insulating material having a coefficient of thermal expansion (CTE) different than the environmental barrier coating and having a columnar microstructure; and
means for providing corrosion protection to the at least one silicate of the environmental barrier coating and providing a CTE mismatch-abating transition between the environmental barrier coating and the thermal-insulating material, the providing means consisting of a transition layer between the environmental barrier coating and the thermal barrier coating, the transition layer being free of silicates and consisting essentially of at least one aluminate compound and optionally the thermal-insulating material of the thermal barrier coating, the at least one aluminate compound being chosen from the group consisting of YAlO3, Y3Al5O12, NbAlO4, TaAlO4, SrAl2O4, CaAl2O4, CaAl4O7, SrLaAlO3, MgAl2O4, ScAlO3, and rare earth aluminate compounds.
19. A gas turbine engine component according to claim 18, wherein the transition layer consists of the at least one aluminate compound.
20. A gas turbine engine component according to claim 18, wherein the environmental barrier coating consists essentially of barium strontium aluminosilicate.
21. A coating system according to claim 1, wherein the providing means consists of alumina.
22. A coating system according to claim 1, wherein the providing means consists of alumina and the thermal-insulating material.
23. A gas turbine engine component according to claim 18, wherein the transition layer is a substantially homogeneous mixture of the at least one aluminate compound and the thermal-insulating material, and the CTE of the transition layer is a value between the CTE's of the thermal-insulating material and the environmental barrier coating.
24. A gas turbine engine component according to claim 18, wherein the transition layer is compositionally graded mixture of the at least one aluminate compound and the thermal-insulating material, and has a gradually increasing CTE with a minium CTE value adjacent the environmental barrier coating and a maximum CTE value adjacent the thermal barrier coating.