The appeal lies from the decision of the Examining Division to refuse the European patent application no. 07 796 963.2. II. In the decision under appeal, the Examining Division came to the conclusions a) that the subject-matter of Claims 1 and 15 of the Main Request lacked an inventive step over the disclosure of D4 (US2006/069005), taken as the closest prior art, in combination with the teaching of D1 (WO2006/011934); and b) that this conclusion also applied to the claimed subject-matter according to First to Fifth Auxiliary Requests. III. With its statement setting out the grounds of appeal, the Applicant (hereinafter the Appellant) resubmitted the six sets of amended claims which were then pending before the Examining Division, as its Main Request and First to Fifth Auxiliary Requests respectively. IV. In a communication in preparation for the oral proceedings, dated 8 June 2015, the Board provided its preliminary and non-binding opinion on the allowability under Articles 123(2) and 84 EPC of some amendments in Claim 1 of the auxiliary requests and on the invoked improvement over D4 in support of inventive step. V. With letter dated 11 June 2015, the Appellant filed six sets of amended claims labelled Main Request and First to Fifth Auxiliary Requests. The Main Request and First to Fifth Auxiliary Requests filed with the statement setting out the grounds of appeal were respectively renumbered as Sixth to Eleventh Auxiliary Requests. VI. Oral proceedings were held on 17 June 2015. The debate initially focused inter alia on the issue of inventive step over D1, taken as the closest prior art, in combination with D4, as regards the option "Aluminium and Magnesium" defined in Claim 1 according to the Main Request. In reaction thereto, the Appellant submitted a set of Claims 1 to 11 as its Main Request (hereinafter "the Main Request") and withdrew all of the claim requests on file. The amendments in the claims of the sole final claim request and inventive step of its claimed subject-matter were then discussed. VII. The independent claims of the Main Request respectively read as follows: "1. A warewashing detergent composition comprising: (a) a cleaning agent comprising a detersive amount of a surfactant; (b) an alkaline source in an amount effective to provide a use composition having a pH of at least about 8 when measured at a solids concentration of about 0.5 wt.%; and (c) a corrosion inhibitor in an amount sufficient for reducing corrosion of glass when the warewashing detergent composition is combined with water of dilution at a dilution ratio of dilution water to detergent composition of at least about 20:1, wherein the amount in the use composition is about 6 to about 300 ppm, the corrosion inhibitor comprising: (i) a source of aluminum ion; and (ii) a source of calcium ion, wherein the warewashing composition is provided in the form of a solid, a gel or a paste, and wherein the corrosion inhibitor comprises a calcium/aluminium corrosion inhibitor having a molar ratio of calcium ion to aluminium ion of less than about 1:4 or a molar ratio of calcium ion to aluminum ion of greater than about 2:1." "11 . A method for using a warewashing detergent composition according to any of claims 1 to 10, the method comprising diluting the warewashing detergent composition with water at a dilution ratio of water to warewashing detergent composition of at least about 20:1." VIII. The Appellant requested that the decision under appeal be set aside and that a patent be granted on the basis of Claims 1 to 11 according to the Main Request filed during oral proceedings. IX. The arguments of the Appellant of relevance for the present decision can be summarised as follows: Admissibility of the Main Request filed at the oral proceedings Since the submission of the Main Request was in reaction to the communication by the Board and the debate during the oral proceedings, and overcame the raised objections, it was admissible. Allowability of the amendments The amended claims were based on the claims as originally filed. Claim 1 was a combination of Claims 1 and 17 as originally filed with the inclusion of the range of the amount of the corrosion inhibitor as disclosed in the application as filed. Therefore, the claims complied with Article 123(2) EPC. Novelty The subject-matters of the claims of the Main Request were more restricted than those of the claims pending before the Examining Division, for which novelty had been acknowledged in the decision under appeal. So no objection against novelty arose. Closest prior art Although both D1 and D4 pertained to the same technical field, the closest prior art was disclosed in D1 rather than in D4. In fact, D1 not only addressed the typical glass corrosion problems (leaching out of minerals and redeposition of silicates), also addressed in D4, but aimed at providing a sacrificial layer, as the present application, in order to prevent etching of minerals and silicates redeposition. Instead, D4 aimed at high amounts of particular surfactants. The claimed subject-matter was distinguished from D1, the closest embodiment of which was defined in its Claim 1, in that the binary system Al/Zn of D1 was replaced with a binary system Al/Ca, whereby the ratio Al/Ca could be adjusted to cope with different water hardnesses. The technical problem Although the application as filed did not contain any general statements on improvements arising from the use of the system Al/Ca, this system provided improvements not only over a system that did not contain any corrosion inhibitor but also over a system containing zinc as corrosion inhibitor. This fact was apparent from Tables 3 and 4 of the application as filed, in particular from the comparison between a system containing Al/Zn and a system containing Al/Ca. This comparison was credible despite the fact that many other parameters of the two compositions had been changed, as it made apparent for the first time that calcium had a positive effect on glass corrosion inhibition if purposively added to the concentrate. The solution and its success The solution as defined in Claim 1 made clear that there should be a controlled amount of a corrosion inhibitor comprising calcium and aluminum at specific molar ratios. These features resulted in the controlled formation of a thin sacrificial layer of calcium aluminate, which prevented minerals etching and redeposition of silicate layers on the glass surface. Non obviousness Although some data about calcium were mentioned in D1, this mention did not concern the purposive addition of calcium as one of the components of the concentrate, let alone in order to provide a positive effect on the reduction of glass corrosion, but the assessment of how water hardness worked in the diluted composition in use. This influence of water hardness was particularly reflected in the ternary plots shown in D1. Since D1 did not hint at the purposive addition of Ca as a component of the concentrate composition, it did not teach to replace the system Al/Zn with a system Al/Ca. D4 was silent in respect of the purposive addition of Ca as a component of the concentrate in order to reduce glass corrosion. Therefore, the claimed composition was not obvious. In fact, as apparent from the disclosures of D1 and D4, the claimed composition would not be obvious over D1 and D4 even if the addressed problem were the providing of a further composition with glass corrosion inhibition.