Title: Surface corrosion protection detergent compositions containing polyvalent metal compounds and high levels of low foaming, nonionic surfactants

Abstract: Automatic dishwashing detergent compositions and compositions of matter, having polyvalent metal compounds and high levels of low-foaming, nonionic surfactants, are provided for protecting glassware from corrosion.

Type: US Patent

Claims: 

1. An automatic dishwashing detergent composition comprising:
a) an effective amount of a polyvalent metal compound;
b) at least 8%, by weight, of a low-foaming, nonionic surfactant having a cloud point less than about 32° C.; and
c) optionally, at least one adjunct ingredient.
2. The composition according to claim 1 wherein said polyvalent metal compound is present in an amount from about 0.01% to about 60% by weight of the composition.
3. The composition according to claim 1 wherein said polyvalent metal compound comprises a metal selected from the group consisting of Al, Mg, Co, Ti, Zr, V, Nb, Mn, Fe, Co, Ni, Cd, Sn, Sb, Bi, Zn, and mixtures thereof.
4. The composition according to claim 3 wherein said polyvalent metal compound comprises a salt selected from the group consisting of organic salts, inorganic salts, oxides and mixtures thereof.
5. The composition according to claim 4 wherein said polyvalent metal compound is selected from the group consisting of: aluminum acetate, aluminum ammonium sulfate, aluminum chlorate, aluminum chloride, aluminum chlorohydrate, aluminum diformate, aluminum fluoride, aluminum formoacetate, aluminum hydroxide, aluminum lactate, aluminum laurate, aluminum metaphosphate, aluminum monostearate, aluminum monostearate, aluminum nitrate, aluminum oleate, aluminum oxide, aluminum oxylate, aluminum palmitate, aluminum phosphate, aluminum potassium sulfate, aluminum resinate, aluminum salicylate, aluminum silicates, aluminum sodium sulfate, aluminum stearate, aluminum sulfate, aluminum tartrate, aluminum triformate, basic zinc carbonate, hydrozincite, magnesium acetate, magnesium acetylacetonate, magnesium aluminate, magnesium ammonium phosphate, magnesium benzoate, magnesium biophosphate, magnesium borate, magnesium borocitrate, magnesium bromate, magnesium bromide, magnesium calcium chloride, magnesium chlorate, magnesium chloride, magnesium chromate, magnesium citrate, magnesium dichromate, magnesium fluoride, magnesium fluosilicate, magnesium formate, magnesium gluconate, magnesium glycerophosphate, magnesium hydroxide, magnesium lauryl sulfate, magnesium nitrate, magnesium oleate, magnesium oxide, magnesium perborate, magnesium perchlorate, magnesium permanganate, magnesium phosphate dibasic, magnesium phosphate monobasic, magnesium phosphate tribasic, magnesium pyrophosphate, magnesium salicylate, magnesium silicate, magnesium stannate, magnesium stannide, magnesium sulfate, magnesium sulfide, magnesium sulfite, magnesium trisilicate, zinc acetate, zinc bacitracin, zinc benzoate, zinc borate, zinc bromate, zinc bromide, zinc carbonate, zinc chlorate, zinc chloride, zinc ethysulfate, zinc fluorosilicate, zinc formate, zinc gluconate, zinc hydrosulfite, zinc hydroxide, zinc lactate, zinc laurate, zinc linoleate, zinc malate, zinc nitrate, zinc oxide, zinc perborate, zinc phosphate, zinc salicylate, zinc silicate, zinc stearate, zinc sulfamate, zinc sulfate, zinc sulfide, zinc sulfite, zinc tartrate, and mixtures thereof.
6. The composition according to claim 1 wherein said polyvalent metal compound comprises particles having an average particle size range of from about 1 nm to about 150 microns.
7. The composition according to claim 6 wherein said polyvalent metal compound comprises particles having a particle size distribution within the range of from about 0.1 nm to about 250 microns.
8. The composition according to claim 1 wherein said polyvalent metal compound is in at least one of the following forms: a composite particle, a flake, a prill, and an extrudate.
9. The composition according to claim 1 wherein said low-foaming, nonionic surfactant has a cloud point of less than about 20° C.
10. The composition according to claim 1 wherein said low-foaming, nonionic surfactant has a hydrophile-lipophile balance value within the range of from about 1 to about 10.
11. The composition according to claim 1 wherein said low-foaming, nonionic surfactant is selected from the group consisting of ethoxylates derived from primary alcohol, polyoxypropylene/polyoxyethylene/polyoxypropylene reverse block polymers, ethoxylated-propoxylated alcohol, epoxy-capped poly(oxyalkylated)alcohols, and mixtures thereof.
12. The composition according to claim 1 further comprising a high cloud point nonionic surfactant having a cloud point of greater than about 40° C.
13. The composition according to claim 1 further comprising a charged surfactant selected from the group consisting of C8 to C18 amine oxides, C8 to C18 sulfo and hydroxy betaines, C8 to C16 alkylethoxycarboxylates and alkylethoxysulfates with degree of ethoxylation greater than 3, C10 to C18 branched alkylcarboxylates, and mixtures thereof.
14. The composition according to claim 1, wherein said composition has a pH in the range of from about 7 to about 12, as measured by a 1% aqueous solution.
15. The composition according to claim 1 wherein said detergent composition comprises an adjunct ingredient selected from the group consisting of: co-surfactants, suds suppressors, builders, sequestrants, bleaching agents, bleach activators, bleach catalysts, enzymes, enzyme stabilizers, thickening agents, chelating agents, alkalinity sources, pH buffering agents, water softening agents, secondary solubility modifiers, soil release polymers, dispersant polymers, hydrotropes, fillers, binders, carrier mediums, oils, organic solvents, antibacterial actives, abrasives, anti-redeposition agents, anti-tarnish agents, anti-corrosion agents, processing aids, plasticizers, aesthetic enhancing agents, preservatives, and mixtures thereof.
16. The composition according to claim 15 comprising a builder selected from the group consisting of citrates, phosphates, aluminosilicates, silicates, polycarboxylates, fatty acids, metal ion sequestrants, and mixtures thereof.
17. The composition according to claim 1 wherein said composition is provided in the form of a unit dose selected from the group consisting of: capsules, tablets, multi-phase tablets, coated tablets, single-compartment water-soluble pouches, multi-compartment water-soluble pouches, and combinations thereof.
18. A kit comprising a package comprising: (a) the composition according to claim 1, and (b) instructions for use of said composition to treat dishware and reduce glassware surface corrosion.
19. The kit according to claim 18, wherein said composition is provided in the form of a unit dose selected from the group consisting of capsules, tablets, multi-phase tablets, coated tablets, single-compartment water-soluble pouches, multi-compartment water-soluble pouches, and combinations thereof; and wherein said composition is in at least one or more of the following forms: liquids, liquigels, gels, foams, creams, and pastes.
20. A composition of matter comprising wash liquor comprising an automatic dishwashing detergent composition comprising (a) at least 8%, by weight, of a low-foaming nonionic surfactant with a cloud point of less than about 32° C.; (b) an effective amount of a polyvalent metal compound; and (c) optionally, at least one adjunct ingredient; wherein said wash liquor comprises from about 0.0001 ppm to about 100 ppm of the polyvalent metal ion, by concentration.

Title: Warewashing composition for use in automatic dishwashing machines

Abstract: The warewashing detergent composition includes a cleaning agent, an alkaline source, and a corrosion inhibitor. The cleaning agent compises a detersive amount of a surfactant. The alkaline source is provided in an amount effective to provide a use composition having a pH of at least about 8. The corrosion inhibitor includes a source of aluminum ion and a source of zinc ion. The relative amounts of the source of zinc ion and the source of alunminum ion can be controlled to reduce visible filming when the warewashing detergent composition is used in the presence of hard water. Methods for using and manufacturing a warewashing detergent composition are provided.

Type: WIPO

Claims: 
WE CLAIM:
1. A warewashing detergent composition comprising:
(a) a cleaning agent comprising a detersive amount of a surfactant;
(b) an alkaline source in an amount effective to provide a use composition having a pH of at least about 8 and obtained by diluting the warewashing detergent composition with water; and
(c) a corrosion inhibitor in an amount sufficient for reducing corrosion of glass, the corrosion inhibitor comprising: (i) a source of aluminum ion;
(ii) a source of zinc ion; and
(iii) wherein the source of aluminum ion and the source of zinc ion are present in amounts sufficient to provide a use composition having a weight ratio of zinc ion to aluminum ion of at least about 2:1.
2. A warewashing detergent composition according to claim 1, wherein the detergent composition comprises between about 0.5 wt.% and about 20 wt.% of the cleaning agent.
3. A warewashing detergent composition according to claim 1, wherein the source of aluminum ion and the source of zinc ion are present in amounts sufficient to provide a use composition having a weight ratio of zinc ion to aluminum ion of between about 20:1 and about 3:1.
4. A warewashing detergent composition according to claim 1, wherein the source of aluminum ion and the source of zinc ion are present in amounts sufficient to provide a use composition having a weight ratio of zinc ion to aluminum ion of between about 15:1 and about 4:1. 5. A ware washing detergent composition according to claim 1, wherein the detergent composition comprises between about 0.
5 wt.% and about 25 wt. % of the corrosion inhibitor.
6. A warewashing detergent composition according to claim 1, wherein the cleaning agent comprises at least one of an anionic surfactant, a nonionic surfactant, a cationic surfactant, and a zwitterionic surfactant.
7. A warewashing detergent composition according to claim 1, wherein the alkaline source comprises at least one of a metal carbonate, an alkali metal hydroxide, and a mixture thereof.
8. A warewashing detergent composition according to claim 1 , wherein the alkaline source comprises at least one of sodium carbonate, potassium carbonate, sodium bicarbonate, potassium bicarbonate, sodium sesquicarbonate, potassium sesquicarbonate, and mixtures thereof.
9. A warewashing detergent composition according to claim 1, wherein the alkaline source comprises at least one of sodium hydroxide, potassium hydroxide, and mixtures thereof.
10. A warewashing detergent composition according to claim 1, the source of aluminum ion comprises at least one of sodium aluminate, aluminum bromide, aluminum chlorate, aluminum chloride, aluminum iodide, aluminum nitrate, aluminum sulfate, aluminum acetate, aluminum formate, aluminum tartrate, aluminum lactate, aluminum oleate, aluminum bromate, aluminum borate, aluminum potassium sulfate, aluminum zinc sulfate, aluminum phosphate, aluminum oxide, aluminum silicate, and mixtures thereof.
11. A warewashing detergent composition according to claim 1, wherein the source of aluminum ion comprises a component characterized by the United States Food and Drug Administration as a direct or indirect food additive.
12. A warewashing detergent composition according to claim 1, wherein the source of aluminum ion comprises particles having an average particle size of less than about 500 nanometers.
13. A warewashing detergent composition according to claim 1, wherein the source of zinc ion comprises at least one of zinc chloride, zinc sulfate, zinc nitrate, zinc iodide, zinc thiocyanate, zinc fluorosilicate, zinc dichromate, zinc chlorate, sodium zincate, zinc gluconate, zinc acetate, zinc benzoate, zinc citrate, zinc lactate, zinc formate, zinc bromate, zinc bromide, zinc fluoride, zinc fluosilicate, zinc salicylate, zinc oxide, zinc aluminate, zinc silicate, and mixtures thereof.
14. A warewashing detergent composition according to claim 1, wherein the source of zinc ion comprises a component characterized by the United States Food and Drug Administration as a direct or indirect food additive.
15. A warewashing detergent composition according to claim 1, wherein the source of zinc ion comprises particles having an average particle size of less than about 500 nanometers.
16. A warewashing detergent composition comprising:
(a) a cleaning agent comprising a detersive amount of a surfactant;
(b) an alkaline source in an amount effective to provide the warewashing detergent composition with a pH of at least about 8; and (c) between about 6 ppm and about 300 ppm of a corrosion inhibitor for reducing corrosion of glass, the corrosion inhibitor comprising a zinc ion and an aluminum ion at a weight ratio of the zinc ion to the aluminum ion of at least about 2:1.
17. A warewashing detergent composition according to claim 16, wherein the weight ratio of the zinc ion to the aluminum ion is between about 20: 1 and about 3:1.
18. A warewashing detergent composition according to claim 16, wherein the warewashing detergent composition has a solids content of between about 0.05 wt.% and about 0.75 wt.%.
19. A warewashing detergent composition comprising:
(a) a cleaning agent comprising a detersive amount of a surfactant;
(b) an alkaline source in an amount effective to provide the warewashing detergent composition with a pH of at least about 8 when the warewashing detergent composition is provided as a use composition; and
(c) between about 0.5 wt.% and about 25 wt.% of a corrosion inhibitor for reducing corrosion of glass, the corrosion inhibitor comprising a source of zinc ion and a source of aluminum ion at a weight ratio of zinc ion to aluminum ion of at least about 2:1.
20. A warewashing detergent composition according to claim 19, wherein the cleaning agent is provided in the warewashing detergent composition in an amount of between about 0.5 wt.% and about 20 wt.%.
21. A warewashing detergent composition according to claim 19, wherein the warewashing detergent composition comprises about 0.1 wt.% to about 70 wt.% chelating/sequestering agent.
22. A warewashing detergent composition according to claim 19, wherein the warewashing detergent composition comprises about 0.1 wt.% to about 60 wt.% bleaching agent.
23. A warewashing detergent composition according to claim 19, wherein the warewashing detergent composition comprises about 1 wt.% to about 20 wt.% detergent filler.
24. A warewashing detergent composition according to claim 19, wherein the warewashing detergent composition comprises about 0.01 wt.% and about 3 wt.% defoaming agent.
25. A warewashing detergent composition according to claim 19, wherein the warewashing detergent composition comprises about 0.5 wt.% to about 10 wt.% anti-redeposition agent.
26. A warewashing detergent composition according to claim 19, wherein the warewashing detergent composition comprises about 5 wt.% to about 60 wt.% water.
27. A warewashing detergent composition according to claim 19, wherein the warewashing detergent composition comprises about 0.1 wt.% to about 10 wt.% water.
28. A warewashing detergent composition according to claim 19, wherein the warewashing detergent composition comprises a block having a size of at least about 5 grams.
29. A warewashing detergent composition according to claim 19, wherein the warewashing detergent composition comprises a block having a size of at least about 50 grams.
30. A warewashing detergent composition according to claim 19, further comprising a water-soluble packaging material enclosing the warewashing detergent composition.
31. A warewashing detergent composition according to claim 30, wherein the water-soluble packaging material comprises polyvinyl alcohol.
32. A warewashing detergent composition according to claim 31, wherein the warewashing detergent composition is provided within the water-soluble packaging material in an amount sufficient to provide a unit dose for application in a dishwashing machine.
33. A warewashing detergent composition according to claim 31 , wherein the warewashing detergent composition is provided in the form of a liquid.
34. A warewashing detergent composition according to claim 31 , wherein the warewashing detergent composition is provided in the form of a solid.
35. A method for using a warewashing detergent composition, the method comprising:
(a) diluting a warewashing detergent composition with water at a dilution ratio of water to warewashing detergent composition of at least about 20:1, wherein the warewashing detergent composition comprises:
(i) a cleaning agent comprising a detersive amount of a surfactant; (ii) an alkaline source in an amount effective to provide a use composition having a pH of at least about 8;
(iii) a corrosion inhibitor in an amount sufficient for reducing corrosion of glass, the corrosion inhibitor comprising a source of zinc ion and a source of aluminum ion in amounts sufficient to provide a use composition comprising zinc ion and aluminum ion at a weight ratio of zinc ion to aluminum ion of at least about 2:1; and
(b) washing ware with the use composition in an automatic dishwashing machine.
36. A method according to claim 35, wherein the water diluting the warewashing detergent composition comprises water having a total dissolved solids content of greater than about 200 ppm.
37. A method according to claim 35, wherein the use composition comprises a free calcium ion concentration of greater than about 200 ppm.
38. A process according to claim 35, wherein the amount of the source of zinc ion and the amount of the source of aluminum ion is sufficient to provide a weight ratio of zinc ion to aluminum ion of between about 20:1 and about 3:1.
39. A process according to claim 35, wherein the amount of the source of zinc ion and the amount of the source of aluminum ion is sufficient to provide a weight ratio of zinc ion to aluminum ion of between about 15:1 and about 4:1.
40. A process according to claim 35, wherein the detergent composition comprises between about 0.5 wt.% and about 25 wt. % of the corrosion inhibitor.
41. A process according to claim 35, wherein the cleaning agent comprises at least one of an anionic surfactant, a nonionic surfactant, a cationic surfactant, and a zwitterionic surfactant.
42. A process according to claim 35, wherein the alkaline source comprises at least one of a metal carbonate, an alkali metal hydroxide, and a mixture thereof.
43. A process according to claim 35, wherein the alkaline source comprises at least one of sodium carbonate, potassium carbonate, sodium bicarbonate, potassium bicarbonate, sodium sesquicarbonate, potassium sesquicarbonate, and mixtures thereof.
44. A process according to claim 35, wherein the alkaline source comprises at least one of sodium hydroxide, potassium hydroxide, and mixtures thereof.
45. A process according to claim 35, the source of aluminum ion comprises at least one of sodium aluminate, aluminum bromide, aluminum chlorate, aluminum chloride, aluminum iodide, aluminum nitrate, aluminum sulfate, aluminum acetate, aluminum formate, aluminum tartrate, aluminum lactate, aluminum oleate, aluminum bromate, aluminum borate, aluminum potassium sulfate, aluminum zinc sulfate, aluminum phosphate, aluminum oxide, aluminum silicate, and mixtures thereof.
46. A process according to claim 36, wherein the source of aluminum ion comprises a component characterized by the United States Food and Drug Administration as a direct or indirect food additive.
47. A process according to claim 35, wherein the source of aluminum ion comprises particles having an average particle size of less than about 500 nanometers.
48. A process according to claim 35, wherein the source of zinc ion comprises at least one of zinc chloride, zinc sulfate, zinc nitrate, zinc iodide, zinc thiocyanate, zinc fluorosilicate, zinc dicliromate, zinc chlorate, sodium zincate, zinc gluconate, zinc acetate, zinc benzoate, zinc citrate, zinc lactate, zinc formate, zinc bromate, zinc bromide, zinc fluoride, zinc fluosilicate, zinc salicylate, zinc oxide, zinc silicate, and mixtures thereof.
49. A process according to claim 35, wherein the source of zinc ion comprises a component characterized by the United States Food and Drug Administration as a direct or indirect food additive.
50. A process according to claim 35, wherein the source of zinc ion comprises particles having an average particle size of less than about 500 nanometers.
51. A method for using a detergent composition, the method comprising:
(a) diluting a detergent composition with water at a dilution ratio of water to detergent composition of at least about 20:1, wherein the detergent composition comprises:
(i) a cleaning agent comprising a detersive amount of a surfactant;
(ii) a corrosion inhibitor in an amount sufficient for reducing corrosion of glass, the corrosion inhibitor comprising a source of zinc ion and a source of aluminum ion in amounts sufficient to provide a use composition comprising zinc ion and aluminum ion at a weight ratio of zinc ion to aluminum ion of at least about 2:1; and (b) washing a hard surface with the use composition.
52. A method according to claim 51, wherein the hard surface comprises at least one of glass and ceramic.
53. A method according to claim 52, wherein the hard surface comprises at least one of a window and a mirror.
54. A method for manufacturing a warewashing detergent composition, the method comprising:
(a) providing an amount of corrosion inhibitor in a warewashing detergent composition concentrate sufficient to provide a level of corrosion inhibitor in a use composition as a result of diluting the warewashing detergent concentrate with water at a ratio of water to the warewashing detergent concentrate of at least about 20:1 corresponding to the following formula:
Corrosion inhibitor > [alkalinity (ppnϊ) + builder fppmYl + [alkalinity (ppnϊ) + builder fppmi -2001 + 10 use composition (ppm) [hardness (grains/gallon) + food soil (grams/gallon)] 20
wherein the alkalinity refers to the alkalinity in ppm of the use composition, the builder refers to the amount of builder in ppm in the use composition, the hardness refers to the amount of hardness in grains per gallon in the use composition, and the food soil refers to the expected amount of food soil in grams per gallon in the use composition; and wherein the corrosion inhibitor comprises a weight ratio of zinc ion to aluminum ion of between about 20:1 and about 2:1, and the warewashing detergent composition concentrate further comprises a cleaning agent.
55. A method according to claim 54, further comprising:
(a) solidifying the warewashing detergent concentrate.
56. A method according to claim 54, wherein the warewashing detergent concentrate comprises between about 0.01 wt.% and about 20 wt. % of the cleaning agent.
57. A warewashing detergent composition comprising:
(a) a cleaning agent comprising a detersive amount of a surfactant; and
(b) a corrosion inhibitor in an amount sufficient for reducing corrosion of glass, the corrosion inhibitor comprising:
(i) a source of aluminum ion;
(ii) a source of zinc ion; and
(iii) wherein the source of aluminum ion and the source of zinc ion are present in amounts sufficient to provide a use composition having a weight ratio of zinc ion to aluminum ion of at least about 2:1.