The appeal is against the decision of the examining division, the reasons for which were dispatched on 17 November 2009, to refuse European patent application No. 07 719 786.1 for lack of inventive step, Article 56 EPC, in view of the document: D1: US 2005/0102626 A1. II. A notice of appeal was received on 26 January 2010, the appeal fee being paid on the same day. III. A statement of grounds of appeal was received on 15 March 2010 in which the appellant made a conditional request for oral proceedings. IV. The board issued a summons to oral proceedings, giving in an annex its preliminary opinion that the application seemed not to comply with Article 84 EPC 1973 regarding clarity and conciseness, and Article 56 EPC 1973 regarding inventive step. V. With a letter received on 18 February 2015 the appellant submitted claims according to a main and first and second auxiliary requests, the claims of the main request being the same as those on which the decision was based. The letter also referred to amended pages 4, 6 and 8 of the description being enclosed (see page 6, third paragraph). The online filing receipt for this letter does not mention description pages being sent to the EPO, and no such pages were received at the EPO. VI. On 17 March 2015 a letter was received from the appellant stating that it would not be attending the oral proceedings. VII. Oral proceedings were held on 19 March 2015 in the absence of the appellant. At the end of the oral proceedings the board announced its decision. VIII. The appellant requests that the decision be set aside and a patent be granted on the basis of claims 1 to 16 of the main request, claims 1 to 11 of the first auxiliary request, or claims 1 to 10 of the second auxiliary request. The remaining documents of the application on file are as follows: Description: Pages 1 and 4 to 45, as originally filed Pages 2 and 3a, as received on 14 October 2008 Page 3, as received on 6 October 2009. Drawings: Sheets 1 to 11, as originally filed. IX. Claim 1 of the main request reads as follows: "A media engine apparatus (110) for creating a graphical interface (120) for an application (105) executed on a mobile device (100), the media engine comprising: a renderer (111) for rendering the graphical interface based on template information for the application to a display on the mobile device; a parser (114) for parsing from a template file, the template information defined using Scalar Vector Graphics (SVG) language, the template information describing how to render the graphical interface, the template information comprising: a set of data element definitions associated with a set of data elements (107) defined by the application; a set of custom event definitions associated with a set of custom events defined by the application; and layout manager control information specifying the layout requirements for controlling how a layout manager controls rendering of template information comprising: information for dynamically modifying a length of at least one data element of the set of data elements; and information for dynamically altering display information of an element defined in the template; a content interaction interface (112) for use by the application in notifying the media engine of changes to data elements of the set of data elements of the application and the occurrence of custom events of the set of custom events of the application; and the layout manager (118) for dynamically controlling the rendering of the graphical interface during execution of the application based upon: the template information including the layout manager control information; the changes to the data elements: and the occurrence of custom events notified using the content interaction interface prior to rendering." The claims according to this request also comprise independent claim 6 to a mobile communication device, independent claim 14 to a method of generating a graphical user interface and independent claim 16 to a computer-readable medium storing instructions or statements. X. Claim 1 of the first auxiliary request differs from claim 1 of the main request in that the first two constituents of template information parsed by the parser (114) are amended as follows: "a description of how to display information associated with a set of data elements (107) defined by the application on the graphical interface; a description of how to display information associated with a set of custom events defined by the application on the graphical interface;". The claims according to this request also comprise independent claims 9 and 11, which are identical to independent claims 14 and 16 of the main request, respectively, and claim 5 to a mobile communication device which refers to the media engine of any of claims 1 to 4. XI. Claim 1 of the second auxiliary request differs from claim 1 of the first auxiliary request in that the content interaction interface (112) feature is amended as follows (additions being underlined): "a content interaction interface (112) for use by the application in providing the data elements to the media engine and notifying the media engine of changes to data elements of the set of data elements of the application and the occurrence of custom events of the set of custom events of the application;". The claims according to this request also comprise independent claims 8 and 10, which are identical to independent claims 14 and 16 of the main request, respectively, and claim 4 to a mobile communication device which refers to the media engine of any of claims 1 to 3.