--- PAGE 1 ---
1%

What is claimed is:

1. A media engine apparatus (110) for creating a graphical interface (120) for an application
(105) executed on a mobile device (100), the media engine comprising:

a renderer (111) for rendering the graphical interface for the application to a display on
the mobile device;

a parser (114) for parsing, from a template file, template information defined using Scalar
Vector Graphics (SVG) language, the template information comprising a set of data
element objects and a set of custom event objects for controlling how the renderer
renders the graphical interface, the set of data element objects associated with a set of
data elements (107) defined by the application and the set of custom-event objects
associated with a set of custom events defined by the application;

a content interaction interface (112) for use by the application in notifying the media
engine of changes to data elements of the set of data elements and the occurrence of
custom events of the set of custom events of the application; and

a layout manager (118) for dynamically controlling the display characteristics of template
information based upon the changes to the data elements and the custom events

notified using the content interaction interface prior to rendering.

2. The media engine as claimed in claim 1, wherein the template information further comprises
at least one of:
layout manager control information for controlling how the layout manager controls the
display of template information; and
renderer control information for controlling:
how the renderer renders the set of data element objects; and
how the renderer renders the graphical interface based on at least one custom

event of the set of custom events.

3. The media engine as claimed in claim 2, wherein the layout manger control information

comprises at least one of:
information for dynamically modifying the length of at least one data element of the set

of data elements prior to being rendered; and

--- PAGE 2 ---
information for controlling the display of template information to the graphical interface

that the renderer cannot render.

4. The media engine as claimed in claim 1, further comprising an event engine for providing

event notification to the application.

5. The media engine as claimed in claim 1, wherein the content interaction interface comprises
a content interaction application programming interface, API including calls for:

updating data elements;

notification of custom events;

querying of new events;

getting a new event; and

registering an event listener.

6. The media engine as claimed in claim 2, wherein the template file comprises a markup
language description of:

the set of data element objects;

the set of custom event objects;

the layout manager control information; and

the renderer control information.

7. A mobile communication device (100) comprising:
a display (101);
an operating system (103);
an input device (102);
at least one application (105);
at least one template file (113) associated with the at least one application, the template
file defining template information using Scalar Vector Graphics (SVG) language, the
template information comprises:
a set of data element objects associated with a set of data elements (107) defined
by the application ; and
a set of custom event objects associated with a set of custom events defined by the

application;

--- PAGE 3 ---
a media engine (110) comprising:

a renderer (111) for rendering the graphical interface on the display;

a parser (114) for parsing, from the at least one template file the template
information comprising the set of data element objects and the custom events
objects for controlling how the renderer renders the graphical interface on the
display;

a content interaction interface (112) for use by the application in notifying the
media engine of changes to data elements of the set of data elements and the
occurrence of custom events of the set of custom events of the application;
and

a layout manager (118) for dynamically controlling the display characteristics of
template information based upon the changes to the data elements and the
custom events notified using the content interaction interface prior to

rendering.

8. The mobile communication device as claimed in claim 7, wherein the template information
further comprises at least one of:
layout manager control information for controlling how the layout manager controls the
display of template information; and
renderer control information for controlling:
how the renderer renders the set of data element objects; and
how the renderer renders the graphical interface based on at least one custom

event of the set of custom events.

9. The mobile communication device as claimed in claim 8, wherein the layout manger control
information comprises at least one of:
information for dynamically modifying the length of at least one data element of the set
of data elements prior to being rendered; and
information for controlling the display of template information to the graphical interface

that the renderer cannot render.

--- PAGE 4 ---
10. The mobile communication device as claimed in claim 7, wherein each application of the at
least one applications comprises:
at least one application data element; and

application code.

11. The mobile communication device as claimed in claim 10, wherein the application code
comprises:

code for modifying the at least one application data element;

code for creating at least one application custom event; and

code for communicating at least one of the application data element and at least one of

the application custom event to the media engine using the interaction interface.

12. The mobile communication device as claimed in claim 11, wherein the code for
communicating the at least one application data element and the at least one custom event to the
media engine binds the at least one application data element to at least one data element object of
the set of data element objects of the template information and binds the at least one application
custom event to at least one custom event object of the set of custom event objects of the

template information.

13. The mobile communication device as claimed in claim 7, further comprising an event engine

for providing event notification to the application.

14. The mobile communication device as claimed in claim 7, wherein the interaction interface
comprises a content interaction application programming interface, API including calls for:
updating data elements;
notification of custom events;
querying of new events;
getting a new event; and

registering an event listener.

15. The mobile communication device as claimed in claim 7, wherein the template file
comprises a markup language description of:

the set of data element objects;

--- PAGE 5 ---
the set of custom event objects;
the layout manager control information; and

the renderer control information.

16. A method of generating a graphical user interface (120) for an application (105) on a mobile
device (100) comprising:
parsing (565) template information from a template file (113) defined in Scalar Vector
Graphics (SVG) language , the template information comprising a set of data element
objects and a set of custom event objects for controlling how the renderer renders the
graphical interface, the set of data element objects associated with a set of data
elements (107) defined by the application and the set of custom event objects
associated with a set of custom events defined by the application;
storing (570) the parsed information in a template;
receiving (575) updated data element information and from the application through
content interaction interface for use by the application in notifying the media engine
of changes to data elements of the set of data elements and the occurrence of custom
events of the set of custom events of the application;
updating (580) in the template at least one data element object of the set of data element
objects with the received updated data element information;
controlling (585) the display of the data element information using a layout manager;
passing (590) the template to a renderer; and

rendering (595) the template as a graphical interface

17. The m ethod as claimed in claim 16, further comprising:

providing event notification to the application.

18. A compu ter-readable medium storing instructions or statements for use in executing in a
computer a method of generating a graphical user interface for an application.on a mobile device

as claimed in claim 16 or 17.