TITLE:
Methods and systems for creating and using skins

TYPE:
US Patent

ABSTRACT:
Systems for creating and rendering skins are described. In one described embodiment, a system is configured to provide multiple skin elements that comprise part of a user interface that is executing under the influence of a software application. The system synchronizes a property of at least one of the skin elements with a state associated with the software application such that a change in the state of the software application causes a change in the property of the one skin element. In one embodiment, synchronization takes place using an XML data structure.

CLAIMS:
A system comprising:
means for providing multiple skin elements that comprise part of a user interface that is executing under the influence of a software application;
means for synchronizing a property of at least one of the skin elements with a state associated with the software application such that a change in the state of the software application causes a change in the property of the one skin element, wherein said means for synchronizing comprises means for describing a synchronization using an XML data structure.
2. The system of claim 1, wherein said means for describing comprises means for using a keyword to establish the synchronization.
3. The system of claim 1, wherein said means for describing comprises:
means for associating a keyword with the property of the one element; and
means for associating the state of the software application with the keyword.
4. The system of claim 1, wherein said means for synchronizing comprises means for using an XML name-value pair to effect the synchronization.
5. A system comprising:
one or more computer-readable media;
one or more processors;
computer-readable instructions on the one or more computer-readable media which, when executed, implement a method comprising:
providing multiple skin elements that comprise part of a user interface that is executing under the influence of a software application;
synchronizing a property of at least one of the skin elements with a state associated with the software application such that a change in the state of the software application causes a change in the property of the one skin element, wherein said synchronizing comprises describing a synchronization using an XML data structure.
6. The system of claim 5, wherein said describing comprises using a keyword to establish the synchronization.
7. The system of claim 5, wherein said describing comprises:
associating a keyword with the property of the one element; and
associating the state of the software application with the keyword.
8. The system of claim 5, wherein said synchronizing comprises using an XML name-value pair to effect the synchronization.
9. A system comprising:
means for associating a state associated with a software application with a keyword, the state comprising one to which a property for a skin element associated with the software application is to be synchronized; and
means for assigning the keyword and its associated state as a value of the property of the skin element.
10. The system of claim 9, wherein said means for associating and said means for assigning comprise means for using an XML data structure.