The appeal is against the decision of the examining division, posted on 7 March 2011, to refuse European patent application No. 06786952.9 on the grounds of Article 123(2) EPC with respect to a main request and an auxiliary request 2, lack of clarity (Article 84 EPC 1973) with respect to auxiliary requests 1 and 3, and lack of inventive step (Article 56 EPC 1973), having regard to the disclosure of D1: US 6 434 512, with respect to auxiliary request 4. II. Notice of appeal was received on 6 May 2011 and the appeal fee was paid on the same day. The statement setting out the grounds of appeal was received on 12 July 2011. The appellant requested that the decision under appeal be set aside and that a patent be granted on the basis of a main request or auxiliary request 1, both filed with the statement setting out the grounds of appeal. The claims of the main request were identical to the claims of auxiliary request 4 on which the contested decision was based. Oral proceedings in French were requested. III. A summons to oral proceedings scheduled for 16 October 2015 was issued on 16 July 2015. In an annex to this summons, the board gave its preliminary opinion on the appeal pursuant to Article 15(1) RPBA. Objections were raised under Article 56 EPC 1973 with respect to the main request and to auxiliary request 1 on file, having regard to the disclosures of D1 or D2: DE 44 47 288. IV. With a letter dated 16 September 2015, the appellant filed auxiliary requests 2 and 3 and provided arguments in support of inventive step for all the requests on file. V. Oral proceedings were held as scheduled on 16 October 2015. The appellant requested that the decision under appeal be set aside and that a patent be granted on the basis of the claims of the main request or auxiliary request 1, both filed with the statement setting out the grounds of appeal, or on the basis of auxiliary requests 2 and 3, both filed with letter dated 16 September 2015. At the end of the oral proceedings, the decision of the board was announced. VI. Claim 1 of the main request reads as follows: "A system a system [sic] for component condition monitoring and fault diagnosis in a machine, characterized in that the system includes: - a component controller configured to operate a data collection function that acquires time histories of selected variables for one or more of the components; - a mechatronic device controller configured to operate a pre-processing function that calculates, using predetermined mathematical operations, specified characteristics of the time histories; - a group controller for a group of mechatronic devices, the group controller configured to operate an analysis function for evaluating the characteristics to produce one or more hypotheses of a condition of the one or more components; - a system controller configured to operate a reasoning function for determining the condition of the one or more components from the one or more hypotheses; and - said system controller being further configured to operate a manager function that determines the selected variables acquired by the data collection function, triggers data processing in the pre-processing function for calculating the specified characteristics, initiates evaluation of the characteristics by the analysis function to yield the hypotheses, and triggers derivation of the component conditions by the reasoning function, wherein said machine being implemented in a hierarchical distributed manner and having different level controllers, each one of the subsequent functions is associated with progressively higher level controllers within said machine, each controller receiving data from a lower level, processing the data according to the function associated and passing the processed data to the next level controller or ultimately to a user or higher level system." Claim 1 of the auxiliary request 1 replaces the last passage of claim 1 of the main request "wherein said machine...to a user or higher level system" with the following: "wherein said component controller, mechatronic device controller, group controller and system controller form different levels of a hierarchical chain of controllers where each level has a respective data processing capability, each one of the reasoning function, analysis function and pre-processing function is subsequent respectively from the analysis function, pre-processing function and data collection function and each of the subsequent functions is resident within progressively higher level controllers within the hierarchical chain of controllers of said machine, each controller receiving data from a lower level, processing the data according to the functions resident within the controller, and passing the processed data to the next level controller or ultimately to a user or higher level system and where the controller does not process data that is passed to the next level controller for processing." Claim 1 of the auxiliary request 2 adds to claim 1 of the main request, after the wording "a mechatronic device controller configured to operate a pre-processing function that calculates, using predetermined mathematical operations, specified characteristics of the time histories", the wording ", where the predetermined mathematical models are based on dynamic models of the machine;". Claim 1 of the auxiliary request 3 adds to claim 1 of the main request, after the last passage, the wording ", where the progressively higher level controllers process the data at a level controller that includes intelligence to process the data." Each request comprises further independent claims for a corresponding method (claim 10) and a corresponding computer program (claim 18).