--- PAGE 1 ---
Main request

1. Asystem a system for component condition monitoring and fault diagnosis
in a machine, characterized in that the system includes:

- acomponent controller configured to operate a data collection function that
acquires time histories of selected variables for one or more of the
components;

- a mechatronic device controller configured to operate a pre-processing
function that calculates, using predetermined mathematical operations,
specified characteristics of the time histories;

- a group controller for a group of mechatronic devices, the group controller
configured to operate an analysis function for evaluating the characteristics
to produce one or more hypotheses of a condition of the one or more
components;

- a system controller configured to operate a reasoning function for
determining the condition of the one or more components from the one or
more hypotheses; and

- said system controller being further configured to operate a manager
function that determines the selected variables acquired by the data
collection function, triggers data processing in the pre-processing function
for calculating the specified characteristics, initiates evaluation of the
characteristics by the analysis function to yield the hypotheses, and triggers
derivation of the component conditions by the reasoning function,

wherein said machine being implemented in a hierarchical distributed manner
and having different level controllers, each one of the subsequent functions is
associated with progressively higher level controllers within said machine, each
controller receiving data from a lower level, processing the data according to the
function associated and passing the processed data to the next level controller or
ultimately to a user or higher level system.

2. The system of claim 1, further comprising a function for utilizing the
determined condition of the one or more components to effect preventative
maintenance for the components.

3. The system of claim 1, wherein the reasoning function determines a

condition of a system in which the one or more components operate from the one
or more hypotheses.

141

--- PAGE 2 ---
4. The system of claim 1, wherein the data collection function sets a
sampling period, trigger mode, and number of samples to be recorded for the
selected variables.

5. The system of claim 1, wherein each of the data collection, pre-
processing, analysis, and reasoning facilities resides in a controller of the one or
more components.

6. The system of claim 1, wherein the pre-processing function calculates
specified characteristics of the time histories by performing mathematical
operations on the time histories.

7. The system of claim 1, wherein the analysis function produces the one or
more hypotheses by applying one or more algorithms and analysis techniques to
the calculated specified characteristics of the time histories.

8. The system of claim 1, wherein the reasoning function includes an expert
diagnostic system for determining a condition of the one or more components
from the one or more hypotheses.

9. The system of claim 1, wherein the manager function utilizes the
determined condition of the one or more components to effect preventative
maintenance for the components.

10. A method method of component condition monitoring and fault diagnosis
in a machine characterized in that the method includes:
- acquiring time histories of selected variables for one or more of the
components using a component controller configured to operate a data
collection function;
- calculating specified characteristics of the time histories using a
mechatronic device controller configured to operate a pre-processing function
that calculates, using predetermined mathematical operations, specified
characteristics of the time histories;
- evaluating the characteristics to produce one or more hypotheses of a
condition of the one or more components; using a group controller for a group
of mechatronic devices, the group controller configured to operate an analysis
function for evaluating the characteristics to produce one or more hypotheses
of a condition of the one or more components; and

142

--- PAGE 3 ---
- determining the condition of the one or more components from the one or
more hypotheses using a system controller configured to operate a reasoning
function for determining the condition of the one or more components from
the one or more hypotheses;
- said system controller being further configured to operate a manager
function that determines the selected variables acquired by the data collection
function, triggers data processing in the pre-processing function for
calculating the specified characteristics, initiates evaluation of the
characteristics by the analysis function to yield the hypotheses, and triggers
derivation of the component conditions by the reasoning function,
wherein said machine being implemented in a hierarchical distributed manner
and having different level controllers, each one of the subsequent functions is
associated with progressively higher level controllers within said machine, each
controller receiving data from a lower level, processing the data according to the
function associated and passing the processed data to the next level controller or
ultimately to a user or higher level system.

11. The method of claim 10 including utilizing the determined condition of the
one or more components to effect preventative maintenance for the components.

12. The method of claim 10 including determining a condition of a system in
which the one or more components operate from the one or more hypotheses.

13. |The method of claim 10, wherein acquiring time histories includes setting
a sampling period, trigger mode, and number of samples to be recorded for the
selected variables.

14. The method of claim 10, wherein acquiring time histories is performed by
a controller of the one or more components.

15. The method of claim 10, wherein calculating specified characteristics of
the time histories includes performing mathematical operations on the time
histories.

16. The method of claim 10, wherein evaluating the characteristics to produce
one or more hypotheses of a condition of the one or more components includes
applying one or more algorithms and analysis techniques to the calculated
specified characteristics of the time histories.

143

--- PAGE 4 ---
17. | The method of claim 10, wherein determining the condition of the one or
more components from the one or more hypotheses includes utilizing an expert

diagnostic system.

18. A computer program product comprising a computer usable medium
having computer usable program code for component condition monitoring and
fault diagnosis, that when run on a computer executes the method of claim 10.

144