--- PAGE 1 ---
20

25

MEL, Inc. 23.08.2010
02255885.2 08774-0272EP 1

Main Request

Claims

A method of monitoring the operation of a group of currency acceptors (4)
in a transaction system (2) in which performance data from the acceptors
(4) is analysed to determine whether an aspect of the performance of a plu-
rality of acceptors (4) differs in a similar way from an expected distribu-
tion, thereby indicating that external influences are likely to have caused
that performance difference, wherein the performance data for the group of

acceptors (4) is transferred for analysis to a server (6).

A method as claimed in claim 1, including using past performance data
from the acceptors (4) to determine whether the performance of said plu-

rality of acceptors (4) has altered in said similar way.

A method as claimed in claim 1 or claim 2, including determining whether
the performance data from said plurality of acceptors (4) indicates a statis-
tically significant difference in performance as compared with other accep-

tors (4).

A method as claimed in any preceding claim, wherein each currency ac-
ceptor (4) is arranged to transmit performance data for analysis in response
to detection of one of a plurality of predetermined conditions, and in which
said determining step is performed in dependence upon the number of cur-
rency acceptors (4) transmitting performance data representative of a simi-

lar predetermined condition.

--- PAGE 2 ---
10

15

20

25

30

10.

11.

A method as claimed in any preceding claim, wherein the performance
data includes at least first performance data and second performance data,
means being provided to request the second performance data from a cur-
rency acceptor (4) in dependence upon the content of the first performance

data for that currency acceptor (4).

A method as claimed in any preceding claim, wherein the performance
data includes data dependent upon measurements made of currency arti-

cles.

A method as claimed in claim 6, wherein the performance data includes

data dependent upon measurements made of rejected currency articles.

A method as claimed in claim 7, wherein the performance data indicates

which of a plurality of measurements caused rejection of the article.

A method as claimed in claim 8, wherein the performance data distin-
guishes between those measurements which are responsible for rejection
because they are found to be too low and those which are found to be too

high.

A method as claimed in any one of claims 6 to 9, wherein each currency
acceptor (4) is arranged to recognise articles belonging to a predetermined
set of classes, the method including the step of analysing the performance
data in order to determine whether this indicates that a plurality of cur-
rency acceptors (4) have been receiving articles belonging to a further

class which differs from any of the predetermined set.

A method as claimed in claim 10, including analysing the performance
data in order to derive, at least, data representing the means of the meas-

urements of articles of said further class.

--- PAGE 3 ---
10

15

20

25

30

12.

13.

14.

15.

16.

17.

A method as claimed in claim 10 or claim 11, including the step of sending
to at least one currency acceptor (4) an instruction which causes the cur-
rency acceptor (4) to begin to recognise currency articles of said further

class.

A method as claimed in claim 12, including the step of transferring meas-
urement criteria to said currency acceptor (4) for use in evaluating meas-
urements of currency articles to determine whether they belong to said fur-

ther class.

A method as claimed in any preceding claim, wherein the determining step
takes into account data representing the geographical distribution of the

cutrency acceptors (4).

A method as claimed in any preceding claim, wherein each currency ac-
ceptor (4) is operable to dispense stored currency articles of respective dif-
ferent denominations, the performance data including data dependent upon

changes in the levels of respective denominations stored for dispensing.

A method as claimed in claim 15, wherein the performance data is de-
pendent upon the number of times the quantity of a stored denomination

has become inadequate to allow dispensing.

A method as claimed in claim 15 or claim 16, wherein each currency ac-
ceptor (4) has re-configurable storage facilities so as to permit changing of
the maximum number of currency articles of different denominations
which can be stored, the method including the step of analysing the per-
formance data from the respective currency acceptors (4) to determine how
at least a plurality of the currency acceptors (4) should be re-configured in
order to reduce the likelihood of a stored denomination becoming de-

pleted.

--- PAGE 4 ---
10

15

20

18.

19.

20.

21.

22.

A method as claimed in any one of claims 15 to 17, wherein the perform-
ance data comprises indications of the quantities of stored currency articles
of respective different denominations prior to a change-replenishing opera-
tion on a currency acceptor (4) which leaves the quantities of stored cur-

rency articles at respective float levels.

A method as claimed in claim 18, including the step of determining, for at
least a plurality of currency acceptors (4), an adjusted float level for a

stored denomination.

A method as claimed in any preceding claim, including the step of generat-
ing measurement criteria for use by the currency acceptors (4) to recognise
articles, the measurement criteria being generated by analysing article

measurements contained in said performance data.

A method as claimed in claim 20, including the step of transmitting the

measurement criteria to the currency acceptors (4).

A transaction system (2) comprising a plurality of acceptors (4) and means

for performing a monitoring operation as claimed in any preceding claim.