The appeal is against the decision of the examining division to refuse the present European patent application on the grounds of lack of inventive step (Article 56 EPC) with respect to the claims of a main request and an auxiliary request, having regard to the disclosure of D1:    DE-A-102 20 890, combined with the skilled person's common general knowledge as exemplified by D2:    US-A-2003/0034959. II. With the statement setting out the grounds of appeal, the appellant filed new claims according to a main request and two auxiliary requests. It requested that the decision of the examining division be set aside and that a patent be granted on the basis of the main request or either of the auxiliary requests. III. In an annex to a summons to oral proceedings pursuant to Article 15(1) RPBA, the board gave its preliminary opinion on the appeal. In particular, it raised objections under Articles 123(2) and 84 EPC as well as Articles 54 and 56 EPC, mainly having regard to D1. IV. By its letter of reply, the appellant submitted amended claims according to a main request and five auxiliary requests alongside counter-arguments on the objections raised in the board's communication under Article 15(1) RPBA. As to the scheduled oral proceedings, it also "precautionarily request[ed] the opportunity to attend by video-conference means as indicated by OJ 2006,585". V. The board informed the appellant via a communication that it refused the request that the scheduled oral proceedings be held via video conferencing. VI. Oral proceedings were held as scheduled, during which the appellant filed a new main request, replacing the former claim requests, in response to objections raised under Articles 84 and 56 EPC by the board and discussed during the oral proceedings. The appellant's final request was that the decision under appeal be set aside and that a patent be granted on the basis of claims 1 to 17 of the main request filed during the oral proceedings before the board. At the end of the oral proceedings, the decision of the board was announced. VII. Claim 1 of the main (sole) request reads as follows: "An optical device which in use is positioned on a surface (24) and which illuminates an area of said surface under the device; the device comprising a printed circuit board (50) arranged parallel to said surface (24); a light source (28) and a light guide for projecting light from the light source (28) onto said area; wherein the light guide comprises a body of optically transparent material formed to provide an[sic] prism (10;30) having an input face (12) facing the light source (28) and an output face (14) spaced from and at an angle to the input face (12); characterised in that: the light source is arranged horizontally with respect to said surface; with reference to the perpendicular to said surface as 0°, the input face (12) is positively curved and has an angle from -10° to +60°, the output face (14) has an angle from -60° to +10°, and one of said faces has an angle less than ±5°, such that in use, light from the light source (28) passing through the input face undergoes bending and passage through the output face provides further bending such that light from the light source is refracted from the horizontal onto said surface by the prism (10;30); and said light source (28) and light guide are provided beneath an underside surface of said printed circuit board (50)." Claim 12 of the main request is directed to an optical mouse comprising inter alia the optical device according to claim 1.