Title: Optical mouse for computer input has a lens system or shaped light tube for directing light towards a target point where it can be imaged and used to control a cursor

Abstract: 
System for illumination of a target surface has a light source (LED) arranged at an angle to a circuit board so that the light source transmits light through an opening in the circuit board and a lens for directing the light towards the target surface. Independent claims are made for: a method for manufacturing an effective illumination system; a refractive lens for directing the light; and an alternative illumination system based on a cone shaped light tube with a curved inlet and outlet for generation of total internal reflection.

Type: German Patent

Claims: 

1. A system for illuminating a target surface, characterized in that this system comprises the following components:
a light source positioned obliquely to a circuit board, this light source emitting light through an opening in the circuit board; such as
a lens with an entrance surface and an exit surface, the entrance surface being positioned such that the light is collected from the light source and the exit surface directs the light onto the target surface. 2. The system according to claim 1, characterized in that the lens the light by refraction to the target surface. 3. The system according to claim 1, characterized in that the lens the light directs to the target surface with the help of a Fresnel lens. 4. The system according to claim 1, characterized in that the lens the light directs to the target surface with the aid of a diffractive optical element. 5. The system according to claim 1, characterized in that the angle between the light source and the circuit board is approximately between 10 degrees and 45 degrees. 6. The system according to claim 1, characterized in that the of Light source emitted light flows through an opening in the circuit board. 7. The system according to claim 1, characterized in that the light source PCB happens. 8. The system according to claim 1, characterized in that it is the lens is a wedge-shaped lens. 9. The system according to claim 1, characterized in that the Entry surface further has a curved surface with which the light source emitted light is collected. 10. The system according to claim 9, characterized in that it is in the curved entrance surface is an aspherical entrance surface. 11. The system according to claim 1, characterized in that the Exit surface further has a curved surface with which from the light source emitted light is distributed on the target surface. 12. The system according to claim 11, characterized in that it is in the curved exit surface is an annular exit surface. 13. The system according to claim 1, characterized in that the system for Use in an optical mouse is intended. 14. The system according to claim 1, characterized in that the system for Use in an optical trackball is intended. 15. The system according to claim 1, characterized in that it is in the Light source is an LED. 16. The system according to claim 1, characterized in that the lens made of glass will be produced. 17. The system according to claim 1, characterized in that the lens from one optical plastic material is produced. 18. A method of manufacturing an effective lighting system for illuminating a surface, characterized in that this method comprises the following steps:
Placement of a light source at an angle to the surface, light being emitted using the light source; such as
Positioning of a refractive lens, with the help of the refractive lens collecting light from the light source and directing the light directly onto the surface. 19. The method according to claim 18, characterized in that the light source Light emits through an opening in a circuit board. 20. The method according to claim 18, characterized in that it is the Light source is an LED. 21. The method according to claim 18, characterized in that the angle between the light and the surface is approximately between 10 degrees and 45 degrees. 22. The method according to claim 18, characterized in that in one a further step the lighting system is housed in an optical mouse. 23. The method according to claim 18, characterized in that the Refractive lens is made of glass. 24. The method according to claim 18, characterized in that the Refractive lens is made from an optical plastic material. 25. A method of illuminating a surface, the method comprising the following steps:
Light is emitted at an angle to the surface and through a circuit board;
the light is collected and
directed directly to the surface with the help of a refractive lens. 26. The method according to claim 25, characterized in that the angle to Surface is approximately between 10 degrees and 45 degrees. 27. A system for illuminating a surface, the system comprising the following elements:
light-emitting means for emitting light, said light-emitting means being positioned inclined to the surface;
a collecting means for collecting the light; such as
a directing device with which the light is directed directly onto the surface. 28. The system according to claim 27, characterized in that it is the Light beam means is an LED. 29. The system according to claim 27, characterized in that the Light beam means is inclined at an angle of approximately 10 degrees to 45 degrees. 30. The system according to claim 27, characterized in that it is the Collection means is a lens that is positioned such that the light beam means emitted light is collected. 31. The system according to claim 27, characterized in that the Lighting system is housed in an optical mouse. 32. A refractive lens, characterized in that this refractive lens comprises the following elements:
a first curved surface positioned to collect light; such as
a second curved surface connected to the first surface is formed such that the light in an optical illumination system is directed by refraction directly onto a target surface. 33. The refractive lens according to claim 32, characterized in that the first Surface is aspherical. 34. The refractive lens according to claim 32, characterized in that the second Surface is annular. 35. The refractive lens according to claim 32, characterized in that this lens further a light source for illuminating the first surface and the second Surface. 36. The refractive lens according to claim 32, characterized in that the Refractive lens is used in an optical mouse. 37. The refractive lens according to claim 32, characterized in that the Refractive lens is used in an optical trackball. 38. The refractive lens according to claim 32, characterized in that the lens is made of glass. 39. The refractive lens according to claim 32, characterized in that the lens is made from an optical plastic material. 40. A lighting system based on total internal reflection, characterized in that this lighting system comprises the following elements:
an entry surface positioned to collect light;
a truncated light pipe connected to the entrance surface with which the light is directed; such as
a curved exit surface which is connected to the light pipe, by means of which the light is effectively directed onto a surface. 41. The system according to claim 40, characterized in that a section of the Light tube has a conical shape. 42. The system according to claim 41, characterized in that the conical Light tube has an inlet cross section that is larger than that of the outlet cross section. 43. The system according to claim 40, characterized in that a section of the truncated light tube has a cylindrical shape. 44. The system according to claim 40, characterized in that the blunted Light tube further has a first reflective surface with which the light tube is dulled. 45. The system according to claim 44, characterized in that the first reflective surface is coated with a metallic coating. 46. The system according to claim 44, characterized in that the first reflective surface is positioned so that total internal reflection is guaranteed. 47. The system according to claim 40, characterized in that this system of further has a second reflective surface with which the light is further directed the exit surface is directed. 48. The system according to claim 47, characterized in that the second reflective surface is coated with a metallic coating. 49. The system according to claim 47, characterized in that the first reflective surface is positioned so that total internal reflection is guaranteed. 50. The system according to claim 40, characterized in that this system of further has a light source with which light is emitted. 51. The system according to claim 47, characterized in that it is the Light source is a light emitting diode. 52. The system according to claim 40, characterized in that the blunted Light tube is made of an optical plastic material. 53. The system according to claim 40, characterized in that the blunted Light tube made of glass. 54. A lighting process, characterized in that this process comprises the following steps:
Collecting the light;
Direction of light on a surface using total internal reflection with a light pipe. 55. The lighting method according to claim 54, characterized in that the Light tube has a conical shape. 56. The lighting method according to claim 54, characterized in that at this method, the light is further illuminated by means of an annular exit surface the surface is focused. 57. A lighting system for use in a motion detection computer pointing device, characterized in that this system comprises the following components:
a circuit board;
an LED that is positioned at an angle to the circuit board, and
a lens that runs parallel to the light-emitting diode, with which the light is focused at a second angle on a surface, this lens having an aspherical entrance surface and a cylindrical exit surface.