 The appeal is against the decision of the examining division refusing European patent application No. 03100485.6 published as EP 1341385 A1. II. The present appeal is a second appeal against a decision refusing the present application. The first appeal was filed against a decision of an examining division refusing the application on the grounds that the requirements of Articles 84 EPC 1973 and 123(2) EPC were not met. It was heard and decided by present Board 3.5.04 in a different composition (only the rapporteur was the same) in decision T 2132/08 of 23 October 2012. In that decision the board held that the amended claims filed by the appellant during the appeal proceedings met the requirements of Articles 84 EPC 1973 and 123(2) EPC and thus decided to set the appealed decision aside and to remit the case to the department of first instance for further prosecution. III. In the present second appeal, the decision to refuse the application was based on the grounds that the subject-matter of claim 1 according to each of the main, first to fifth and eighth auxiliary requests did not involve an inventive step (Article 56 EPC 1973) in view of prior-art document D7 and the skilled person's common general knowledge, with inter alia prior-art document D2 cited as evidence of the latter, and that the sixth and seventh auxiliary requests were not admitted into the proceedings under Rule 137(3) EPC. Documents D7 and D2 are as follows: D7:  WO 94/15312 A1, and D2:  D. Nister et al., "An Embedded DCT-Based Still Image Coding Algorithm", IEEE Signal Processing Letters, Vol. 5, No. 6, June 1998, 135-137, XP000752825. In the "Facts and submissions" section of the decision under appeal the examining division also cited inter alia the following prior-art documents: D3:  C. Gonzales et al., "DCT Coding for Motion Video Storage Using Adaptive Arithmetic Coding", Signal Processing : Image Communication 2 (1990), 145-154, XP000243474; and D4:  P. Howard et al., "Arithmetic coding for Data Compression", Proceedings of the IEEE, Vol. 82, No. 6, June 1994, 857-865, XP000438336. IV. With the statement of grounds of appeal the appellant filed a set of amended claims 1 to 10 according to a main request and a set of amended claims 1 to 4 according to an auxiliary request, replacing all the claims previously on file. As a precaution, the appellant requested oral proceedings. V. In a letter dated 2 February 2015 the appellant requested accelerated processing of the appeal. VI. In a communication under Article 15(1) RPBA (Rules of Procedure of the Boards of Appeal, OJ EPO 2007, 536), annexed to the summons to oral proceedings, the board informed the appellant of its provisional opinion that the subject-matter of the claims of the main and auxiliary requests did not involve an inventive step in view of D7 and the skilled person's common general knowledge (with D3 and D4 as evidence of the latter). VII. With a letter of reply dated 31 July 2015, the appellant filed two sets of amended claims 1 to 4 according to second and third auxiliary requests. With a further letter dated 17 August 2015, the appellant filed an affidavit to show that the invention had achieved considerable commercial success. VIII. Oral proceedings were held on 1 September 2015, during which the appellant withdrew its second auxiliary request. At the end of the oral proceedings, the chairman announced the board's decision. IX. The appellant's final requests were that the decision under appeal be set aside and that a patent be granted on the basis of the claims of the main request or, alternatively, on the basis of the claims of the first auxiliary request, both filed with the statement of grounds of appeal, or on the basis of the claims of the third auxiliary request filed with the letter of 31 July 2015. X. Claim 1 according to the appellant's main request reads as follows: "A method of coding image data, the method comprising: converting (602) a block of image data into transform coefficients; and quantizing (604) the transform coefficients such that all, some or none of the transform coefficients become zero; the method being characterised in that it comprises the further steps of: constructing (606) a single entity (706) from the quantized transform coefficients, wherein the constructing comprises: mapping all the quantized transform coefficients (702) into a one-dimensional list (704) of quantized transform coefficients in any fixed order; and generating the single entity (706) to indicate all quantized transform coefficients in the one-dimensional list (704) that are non-zero, the single entity being a bit vector and each bit of the bit vector representing a corresponding quantised transform coefficient in the one-dimensional list; coding (608) the bit vector using an arithmetic coder; and coding (610, 804) values of the non-zero quantized transform coefficients in any fixed order." XI. Claim 1 according to the appellant's first auxiliary request reads as follows (additions to claim 1 of the main request are underlined, deletions are [deleted: struck-through]): "A method of coding image data, the method comprising: converting (602) a block of image data into transform coefficients; and quantizing (604) the transform coefficients such that all, some or none of the transform coefficients become zero; the method being characterised in that it comprises the further steps of: constructing (606) a single entity (706)[deleted:  from the quantized transform coefficients], wherein the constructing comprises: mapping all the quantized transform coefficients (702) into a one-dimensional list (704) of quantized transform coefficients in any fixed order; and generating the single entity (706) to indicate [deleted: all] which quantized transform coefficients in the one-dimensional list (704) [deleted: that] are non-zero, the single entity being a bit vector and each bit of the bit vector representing a corresponding quantised transform coefficient in the one-dimensional list; coding (608) the bit vector using an adaptive arithmetic coder; and coding (610, 804) values of the non-zero quantized transform coefficients in any fixed order." XII. Claim 1 according to the appellant's third auxiliary request reads as follows (additions to claim 1 of the main request are underlined): "A method of coding image data, the method comprising: converting (602) a block of image data into transform coefficients; and quantizing (604) the transform coefficients such that all, some or none of the transform coefficients become zero; the method being characterised in that it comprises the further steps of: constructing (606) a single entity (706) from the quantized transform coefficients, wherein the constructing comprises: mapping all the quantized transform coefficients (702) into a one-dimensional list (704) of quantized transform coefficients in any fixed order; and generating the single entity (706) to indicate all quantized transform coefficients in the one-dimensional list (704) that are non-zero, the single entity being a bit vector and each bit of the bit vector representing a corresponding quantised transform coefficient in the one-dimensional list; coding (608) the bit vector using an adaptive arithmetic coder, wherein the coding comprises coding the bit vector according to a received context (712) for the bit vector; and coding (610, 804) values of the non-zero quantized transform coefficients in any fixed order." XIII. The examining division's reasoning as to inventive step in the decision under appeal, as far as relevant for the claims under consideration, can be summarised as follows: Document D7 represented the closest prior art. The method of claim 1 of the second auxiliary request underlying the decision (corresponding to claim 1 of the present main request) differed from that of D7 in that (1)  the bit vector corresponded to a whole block of transform coefficients (whereas bit vectors in D7 correspond to "zones" of a block) and (2)  the bit vector was arithmetically coded (in D7 the bit vectors are Huffman-coded). The objective technical problem was how to provide an alternative coding for the bit vector to efficiently compress it. It was common general knowledge in the field of image compression/coding that "arithmetic coding" outperformed the older "Huffman coding". It would thus have been obvious to replace Huffman coding by arithmetic coding in D7, thereby arriving at distinguishing feature (2). As to distinguishing feature (1), it was clear from D7 that the number of zones in a block of transform coefficients could vary. It would thus have been a matter of routine arithmetic choice to give that number a value of "1", th Hence the method of claim 1 of the second auxiliary request underlying the decision (corresponding to claim 1 of the present main request) did not involve an inventive step. Claim 1 according to the fifth auxiliary request underlying the decision (corresponding to claim 1 of the present first auxiliary request) added that the arithmetic coding of bit vector was adaptive. Since adaptive arithmetic coding was well known in the art, the method of claim 1 also did not involve an inventive step. XIV. The appellants' arguments may be summarised as follows: Main request The method of claim 1 differed from that of D7 essentially by the following distinguishing features: (1)  mapping all the quantised transform coefficients into a one-dimensional list of quantised transform coefficients in any fixed order; (2)  generating the bit vector as a single entity from the one-dimensional list of quantised transform coefficients; and (3)  coding the bit vector using an arithmetic coder. Regarding the construction of claim 1, the skilled person would have understood that the bit vector, being a single entity, was a single discrete construct and was arithmetically coded as a whole in one sequence, i.e. it was never divided into zones, not even during the coding step. The appellant cited decision T 1023/02, in particular point 12 of the Reasons, in support of its interpretation of the claim. The objective technical problem solved by the above distinguishing features was how to provide an improved method of coding image data. The word "improved" had to be understood as meaning a better balance between compression efficiency and computational efficiency. The method of claim 1 solved this problem by mapping all the quantised transform coefficients to a one-dimensional list, generating a bit vector from the one-dimensional list as a single entity for the whole block and arithmetically coding the bit vector. These steps allowed an efficient compression of the bit vector by taking advantage of the synergistic effect obtained by  using arithmetic coding on a bit vector representing a whole block. In the method of D7, in contrast, a central teaching of the disclosure was that a block of quantised transform coefficients should be divided into "zones", for instance eight zones of eight coefficients each, and that a bit vector should be created for each zone. The division into zones created a synergy with Huffman coding because different probability models, each finely tuned to a respective zone, could be used for coding the bit vectors of the different zones (see the eight PROMs 406 in figure 13, and page 26, lines 20 to 24). In particular, the method of D7 could effectively code an expected relatively large number of non-zero coefficients in the first zone and an expected smaller number of non-zero coefficients in the other zones. As a result of the above synergy, the compression method of D7 was simple to implement, yet highly efficient at compressing the bit vectors of a block. The teaching that a block should be divided into zones was so entrenched in the method of D7 that the skilled person would have been dissuaded from replacing Huffman coding by arithmetic coding. Indeed, the skilled person would have realised that there would be no synergy between the division of a block into zones and arithmetic coding. This was because, as was well-known in the art, arithmetic coding differed from Huffman coding in that rather than separating the input into component symbols and replacing each with a code, it encoded the entire message into a single number. The skilled person would thus have considered that arithmetic coding in D7 would have added complexity and increased the computational requirements, yet would not have achieved a better compression efficiency than zone-based Huffman coding. Already for the above reasons, it would have required an inventive step for the skilled person to arrive at the method of claim 1 when starting from D7. Moreover, the invention of the present application enjoyed considerable commercial success, as evidenced by the number of licensees and the amount of licence income that the US and Canadian patents corresponding to the present application had brought in (see the affidavit filed with the letter dated 17 August 2015). This commercial success was a further indication of the presence of an inventive step. First auxiliary request Claim 1 of this request comprised essentially the additional feature that the arithmetic coder was adaptive. The skilled person would have had no incentive to use an adaptive arithmetic coder in D7 because the probability models used for Huffman coding the bit vectors were already finely tuned to the expected probability distributions of the respective zones, and thus in no need of further adaptation. Third auxiliary request Claim 1 of this request comprised essentially the additional feature (compared to the first auxiliary request) that the arithmetic coding comprised coding the bit vector according to a context for the bit vector. Since the context was for the whole block, this feature made it clear in claim 1, if there had been any doubt, that the bit vector was arithmetically coded in one go, i.e. not divided into zones during the coding step. In D7, there was no reason to take a context into account. Moreover, even if the skilled person had nevertheless contemplated using a context, it would have been a context for each bit vector of each zone, not for a bit vector representing the whole block.