TITLE:
Digital video compression system utilizing vector adaptive transform

TYPE:
Patent

ABSTRACT:
A video compression system comprises a pre-processing section (102), and encoder (106), and post-processing section (114). The pre-processing section (102) employs a median decimation filter (122) which combines median filtering and decimation process. The pre-processing section (102) also employs adaptive temporal filtering and content adaptive noise reduction filtering to provide images with proper smoothness and sharpness to match the encoder characteristics. The encoder (106) employs a two pass look-ahead allocation rate buffer control scheme where the numbers of bits allocated and subsequently generated for each block may differ. In the first pass, the means square error for each block is estimated to determine the number of bits assigned to each block in a frame. In the second pass, the degree of compression is controlled as a function of the total number of bits generated for all the preceding blocks and the sum of the bits allocated to such preceding blocks.

CLAIMS:
WHAT IS CLAIMED IS:
1. A method for encoding frames of digitized video information, wherein the frames.are divided into blocks, and wherein numbers of bits available for encoding video information change over time so that the number of bits available for encoding a frame may differ from the number of bits available for encoding a subsequent frame, said method comprising: performing a spatial domain to transform domain transformation of video information related to each block of a frame to obtain a corresponding block of transform coefficients; ascertaining the number of bits available for encoding said frame; allocating a number of bits to the encoding of each block of transform coefficients for all the blocks in said frame; and quantizing and coding each block of transform coefficients to generate variable length coding bits for each block, wherein the number of bits generated for each block is a function of the number of bits allocated to the encoding of a different block.
2. . The method of claim 1, wherein said blocks of the frame are encoded sequentially in a time sequence, wherein the number of bits generated in the quantizing and coding of a block of transform coefficients is a function of the number of bits allocated to the encoding of a subsequent block in the time sequence in a look-ahead bit allocation scheme.
3. The method of claim 2, said method further comprising: prior to quantizing and coding a block of transform coefficients, determining the sum total number of bits generated in quantizing and coding all blocks of transform coefficients that precede such block in the time sequence, if any; wherein said step of quantizing such block of transform coefficients uses information regarding the sum total number of bits allocated to all the blocks of the frame that have been quantized and coded up to such quantizing step, and the sum total number of bits generated in quantizing and coding all the preceding blocks of transform coefficients, to control at such quantizing step the number of variable length coding bits generated for such block.
4. An apparatus for encoding frames of digitized video information, wherein the frames are divided into blocks, and wherein numbers of bits available for encoding video information change over time so that the number of bits available for encoding a frame may differ from the number of bits available for encoding a subsequent frame, said apparatus comprising: means for performing a spatial domain to transform domain transformation of video information related to each block of a frame to obtain a corresponding block of transform coefficients; means for ascertaining the number of bits available for encoding said frame; means for allocating a number of bits to the encoding of each block of transform coefficients for all the blocks in said frame; and means for quantizing and coding each block of transform coefficients to generate variable length coding bits for each block, wherein the number of bits generated is a function of the number of bits allocated to the encoding of a different block of transform coefficients.
5. A method for decimating and filtering video information in a two dimensional array of pixel values forming a frame, said array being arranged in horizontal rows and vertical columns, said method comprising: multiplying each pixel value in a group of three adjacent pixel values in each row or column of said array by a predetermined factor to obtain three products; and summing the three products to obtain a new pixel value to replace the group of three adjacent pixel values, thereby filtering and decimating the frame by three in the horizontal or vertical direction.
6. The method of claim 5, wherein said three adjacent pixel values in said group has a midian pixel value in between the remaining two pixel values, wherein said factor used in the multiplying step for multiplying the middle pixel value is about twice that used in the multiplying step for multiplying the remaining two pixel values.
7. A method for filtering video information in a two dimensional array of pixel values forming a frame, said jarray being arranged in horizontal rows and vertical columns, said method comprising: for at least one pixel in the array, obtaining an average value of the value at such pixel and values of adjacent pixel in the array to derive a low pass filtered value for said at least one pixel in the array; comparing said low pass filtered value with the value of said at least one pixel; and determining whether the value of said at least one pixel is to be replaced in response to said comparison.
8. A method for filtering a frame of video information, said frame including a two dimensional array of pixel values, said array being grouped in blocks of pixel values, each block having a boundary and boundary pixel values at its boundary, said boundary pixel values being adjacent to the boundary pixel values of adjacent blocks in the array, said method comprising: detecting boundary pixel values of the blocks in the frame; multiplying at least one boundary pixel value and at least two pixel values that are adjacent to such boundary pixel value and that are not boundary pixel values of the same block as such boundary pixel value by predetermined factors to obtain products, said at least one boundary pixel value and said at least two pixel values forming a group; summing the products to obtain a new pixel value corresponding to such boundary pixel value; and replacing said at least one boundary pixel value by its corresponding new pixel value.
9. The method of claim 8, wherein said factor used in the multiplying step for multiplying the boundary pixel value is about twice that used in the multiplying step for multiplying the at least two pixel values in the same group.
10. A method for encoding frames of pixel values of video information, wherein the frames are divided into blocks, said method comprising: performing a spatial domain to transform domain transformation of video information related to each block of a frame to obtain a corresponding block of transform coefficients; quantizing and coding each block of transform coefficients to generate variable length coding bits for each block, wherein the quantizing step is performed by reference to one index within a set of numerical indices indicating number of bits resulting from the quantizing step, and wherein said indices have values that vary directly with the number of bits resulting from the quantizing step; computing an average value of the indices by reference to which the blocks of a frame have been quantized and coded in the quantizing and coding step; comparing said average value to predetermined range values; and multiplying each pixel value by a selected matrix element when the average value is within predetermined range values.
11. A method for encoding frames of digitized video information, wherein the frames are divided into blocks, said method comprising: performing a spatial domain to transform domain transformation of video information related to each block of a frame to obtain a corresponding block of transform coefficients; quantizing and coding each block of transform coefficients to generate variable length coding bits for each block, wherein said coding step includes: first scanning at least some of the coefficients of each block along at least two different paths and counting the number of nonzero scanned coefficients along each path to obtain at least two numbers; comparing the numbers obtained to find the largest of the numbers; and scanning the coefficients of each block along the path that results in the largest number before coding each block of transform coefficients.
12. The method of claim 11, further comprising: dividing each block into two or more sets of zones each corresponding to a scan path, wherein said first scanning step scans only the coefficients in one of the zones along said different paths.
13. A method for encoding frames of digitized video information, wherein the frames are divided into blocks, said method comprising: performing a spatial domain to transform domain transformation of video information related to each block of a frame to obtain a corresponding block of transform coefficients; quantizing and coding each block of transform coefficients to generate variable length coding bits for each block; dividing each block into two or more sets of zones; and forming a scan vector of at least one zone and variable length coding of coefficients of said at least one zone.
14. The method of claim 13 , further comprising; . detecting whether the remaining coefficients are zero after said forming step; and sending end of block when the remaining coefficients are detected to be zero after said forming step.
15. The method of claim 13, wherein said forming step also detects whether the vector formed contains all l's or O's.
16. A method for encoding frames of video information, said frames divided into blocks, wherein the frames are encoded sequentially in a time sequence, so that each block in a frame has a corresponding block in a different frame, said method comprising: performing a spatial domain to transform domain transformation of video information related to each block of a frame to obtain a corresponding block of transform coefficients; quantizing and coding each block of transform coefficients to generate variable length coding bits for each block; reconstructing each block from its variable length coding bits; storing said reconstructed block; storing a predetermined frame of video information as the background frame, said frame containing a background block corresponding to said reconstructed block; comparing a current block to be quantized and coded to said reconstructed block and to the background block to determine a prediction block; and using the prediction block to derive said video information related to each block that is transformed in said performing step.