The appeal is against the decision of the examining division to refuse the present European patent application on the ground of lack of novelty (Article 54 EPC) with respect to the claims of a main and a first auxiliary request, having regard to the disclosure of D1:    US-A-2005/0162402, and on the ground of added subject-matter (Article 123(2) EPC) in respect of the claims of a second and third auxiliary request. Moreover, in an obiter dicta part of the decision under appeal (sections 15.1 to 15.9), the examining division also expressed its opinion that the subject-matter of claim 1 of all claim requests on file was not inventive over the combined disclosures of D1 and D2:    "Document Object Model (DOM) Level 2 Events Specification", Version 1.0, W3C Recommendation, pp. 1-47, 13 November 2000. In addition, the following prior-art document was also cited in the decision under appeal as support for the proper interpretation of D1: D11:    M.H. Brown and M.A. Najork: "Distributed active objects", Computer Networks and ISDN Systems, Vol. 28, No. 11, pp. 1037-1052, May 1996. II. With the statement setting out the grounds of appeal, the appellant filed new sets of claims as a main request and four auxiliary requests. It requested that the decision of the examining division be set aside and that a patent be granted on the basis of one of those claim requests. III. In an annex to the summons to oral proceedings pursuant to Article 15(1) RPBA, the board gave its preliminary opinion on the appeal. In particular, it raised objections under Article 56 EPC with regard to all claim requests on file, mainly having regard to D2 combined with the disclosure of D12:   S. Ramachandran and R. Kashi: "An Architecture for Ink Annotations on Web Documents", Proceedings of the Seventh International Conference on Document Analysis and Recognition, pp. 256-260, August 2003. Prior-art document D12 was introduced into the appeal proceedings by the board under Article 114(1) EPC due to its relevance for the assessment of novelty and inventive step of the underlying subject-matter. Furthermore, the appellant was also informed that, regardless of whether or not the appeal was considered to be allowable, the board could not see  IV. With a letter of reply, the appellant submitted amended claims according to five additional auxiliary requests as auxiliary requests A to E. V. Oral proceedings were held as scheduled on 8 July 2015, during which the appellant filed a new claim request (auxiliary request D'') as its main and sole claim request, replacing all the claim requests on file. The appellant's final request was that the decision under appeal be set aside and that a patent be granted on the basis of the claims of auxiliary request D'' submitted during the oral proceedings before the board. At the end of the oral proceedings, the decision of the board was announced. VI. Claim 1 of auxiliary request D'' (sole request) reads as follows: "A method, comprising: receiving touch input signals associated with one or more elements (102-108) of a web page (100) displayed on a touch sensitive device (400); processing the touch input signals to determine if the touch input signals are associated with a touch gesture made with respect to the one or more elements (102-108) of the web page (100), wherein processing the touch input signals includes determining touch events based on the touch input signals, the touch events including a touch start event, one or more touch move events, and a touch end or touch cancel event; and if the touch input signals are associated with a touch gesture, processing the touch events into gesture events using a touch model, said processing of the touch events including combining a plurality of the touch events into a gesture event containing scale and/or rotation information, and forwarding the gesture events to the web page (100) for further processing; wherein the gesture events include a gesture start event, a gesture change event and a gesture end event." The further independent claim 11 of this auxiliary request is directed to a corresponding computer program.