 The present appeal lies from the decision of the examining division to refuse European patent application No. EP 01 951 910. II. The examining division found that the patent application did not meet the requirements of Articles 84, 83 and 56 EPC. The following documents were cited in the decision: D1: EP-A-860 197 D2: DE-A-44 22 661 D3: DE-A-42 08 355 D4: EP-A-706 815 D5: US-A-5 435 980 D6: EP-A- 208 036 III. In its communication under Article 15(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the Boards of Appeal (RPBA), the Board expressed its preliminary non-binding opinion that the requests on file appeared inter alia not to meet the requirements of Articles 84 and 56 EPC. IV. In reply to said communication, the applicant (appellant) submitted new requests and the following documents: D7: US-A-4 418 541 D8: US-A-4 553 924 D9: Integrated dry NOx/SOx emissions control system: advanced retractable injection lance SNCR test report, DOE contract Number DE-FC22-91 PC90550, 1997, Section 3. Claim 1 of the main and auxiliary request 1 is as follows: "1. A method for the treatment of mercury present in exhaust gas of a boiler, wherein exhaust gas produced in the boiler and containing each of nitrogen oxides, sulfur oxides and mercury, after a chlorinating agent has been added thereto, is subjected to a reductive denitration treatment in the presence of a solid catalyst and then to wet desulfurization using an alkaline absorbing fluid, the method being characterized by : detecting the boiler load; measuring the mercury concentration in the exhaust gas after the wet desulfurization (A); calculating a predicted value (Y) of the inlet mercury concentration before the reductive denitration treatment on the basis of the measured mercury concentration (A) and on the basis of the detected boiler load; and controlling the feed rate of the chlorinating agent added prior to the reductive denitration treatment, according to the deviation of the predicted value (Y) of the inlet mercury concentration before the reductive denitration treatment from a reference inlet mercury concentration." Claim 1 of the second auxiliary request includes in addition the following underlined wording: "1. A method for [...] and on the basis of the detected boiler load, wherein the predicted value (Y) of the inlet mercury concentration before the reductive denitration treatment is calculated on the basis of the feed rate of the chlorinating agent and the degree of removal of mercury in the exhaust gas treatment system to which the method is applied; and controlling the feed rate [...] from a reference inlet mercury concentration." V. Oral proceedings took place on 27 February 2015. VI. The arguments provided by the appellant and relevant to the present decision can be summarised as follows: One could directly conclude from the remaining amount of mercury measured at the outlet the amount of mercury originally present at the inlet, assuming that the removal rates of mercury chloride and mercury(0) and the conversion/oxidation rate were known or could be predetermined in advance based on the configuration and operation of the processing equipment used in the treatment system. The invention was based on the conclusion that, given that the parameters relating to the equipment could be predetermined, the presumed/predicted concentration of mercury at the inlet could be calculated if the concentration of mercury measured at the outlet and the boiler load were known. In industrial processes, the actual or current boiler load was constantly monitored and was normally indicative of a percentage between 0 and 100% of the rated boiler load. The commonly applied control equipment in a power plant provided this information in the form of a boiler load signal that under normal operating conditions was proportional to the amount of electric power generated. This was known to the skilled person, who was an engineer with experience in the field of power plants and exhaust gas treatment. The reference inlet mercury concentration was a predetermined value at the outlet of the boiler for different types of coal and boiler load. The method of the invention could compensate variations occurring in the process of exhaust treatment, in the boiler load, or in the composition of the coal. None of the cited prior-art documents appeared to teach that the boiler load signal should be considered when calculating a particular value of the mercury concentration at the various stages in the exhaust gas treatment to accommodate variations in a boiler load and the influence of these variations on the removal of mercury from the exhaust gas. There was some delay in noting the variations, due to the residence/processing time in the exhaust gas treatment system when the mercury concentration was measured at the outlet. By taking the boiler load signal into account, this delay could be avoided and the amount of chlorinating agent could be quickly adjusted. D5 did not teach or suggest to adjust the amount of chloride based on both the type of fuel and the boiler load. Since the amount of mercury emitted from a boiler did not depend only on the type of fuel but also on the boiler load, variations in the boiler load would change the mercury concentration in the exhaust gas leaving the boiler. Since the mercury detection device was located at the downstream end of the exhaust gas treatment system, there was a delay in detecting variations in the mercury concentration in the exhaust gas leaving the boiler. This led to inaccurate dosing of chlorinating agent. This could be avoided by additionally considering the boiler load when calculating the predicted values of the inlet mercury concentration, before the reductive denitration treatment, and of the outlet mercury concentration after the wet desulfurisation treatment. By providing an arithmetic unit with information about the boiler load, the delay in detecting variations in the mercury concentration of the exhaust gas was minimised and the proper amount of chlorinating agent could be more quickly supplied to the exhaust gas. D5 was completely silent as to the problem of variations in the load of a boiler causing variations in the mercury concentration of exhaust gas produced therein. D5 was a fast-responding system and did not concern the same setup as in D1. D5 taught only a feedback control, but no feedforward control. None of the prior-art documents related to feedforward control. The measurement of mercury before the removal of sulfur was not easy, so continuous monitoring of the input mercury concentration was cumbersome. According to the invention, the chlorinating agent was added before the denitration catalyst. In view of the feedback and feedforward control in the method according to claim 1, the amount of chlorinating agent could be easily and reliably adjusted. VII. Requests: The appellant requests that the decision of the examining division be set aside and that a patent be granted on the basis of the claims of the main request or, alternatively, of auxiliary requests 1 or 2, all filed with its letter dated 27 January 2015.