TITLE:
Rigid, relatively lightweight vehicle headlamp housing formed as two areas and housing manufacture

TYPE:
German Patent

ABSTRACT:
The first area (2) comprises a framework structure having a first modulus of elasticity and heat resistance and the second area forming a filling structure has a lower modulus of elasticity and lower heat resistance. An Independent claim is made for a housing (1) manufacturing process in which the first area is produced in one plastic and the second area molded around it in another plastic. Preferred Features: The modulus of elasticity of the first plastic is 5500-12000MPa and that of the second is 800-3000MPa. Heat distortion temperature of the first plastic is 130-220 deg C and of the second is 45-75 deg C. Use of the first material with higher physical properties is in areas subjected to greater mechanical and thermal loading.

CLAIMS:
1. Housing for a headlamp, which has at least a first region and a second region, characterized in that the first region has a framework structure with a first modulus of elasticity and a first heat resistance and the second region has a filling structure with a second modulus of elasticity, which is less than the first modulus of elasticity, and a second heat resistance, which is less than the first heat resistance. 2. Housing according to claim 1, characterized in that the first Modulus of elasticity in an interval from 5500 MPa to 12000 MPa and the second modulus of elasticity in an interval from 800 MPa to 3000 MPa lies. 3. Housing according to one of the preceding claims, characterized records that the first heat resistance in an interval of 130 ° C to 220 ° C and the second heat resistance in one Interval from 45 ° C to 75 ° C. 4. Housing according to one of the preceding claims, characterized records that the first area from a first plastic and the second area consists of a second plastic, the first  Plastic and the second plastic differ in their structure the. 5. Housing according to one of the preceding claims, characterized records that the first area from a first plastic and the second area consists of a second plastic, the first Plastic and the second plastic are in their chemical together differentiate the setting. 6. Housing according to one of the preceding claims, characterized records that the first area from a glass fiber reinforced and with Heat stabilizers provided plastic, in particular from a glasfa server-strengthened and heat-stabilized polypropylene or made of a glass fiber reinforced and with heat stabilizers Polyester, and the second area made of a plastic, in particular made of a polypropylene or a polyester, without fiberglass strengthening exists. 7. Housing according to one of the preceding claims, characterized records that the first region a plurality of mechanically or thermally particularly stressed areas of the housing includes. 8. Housing according to claim 7, characterized in that the first Area lamp holders and an outer circumferential sealing frame includes. 9. A method for producing a housing according to one of the preceding claims, which comprises at least the following steps:
a) production of the first region from a first plastic;
b) molding the second area around the first area with a second plastic.
10. The method according to claim 9, characterized in that in step b) the second area is sprayed around the first area.