The appeal is against the decision of the Examining Division refusing European patent application No. 01 944 605 on the grounds that the claimed subject-matter did not meet the requirements of Articles 123(2), 84, 52(1) and 56 EPC. II. The following documents cited by the Examining Division are referred to in this decision: D1: WO 00 02233 A D2: LIU P ET AL: Enhancing the Oxygen Plasma Resistance of Low-k Methylsilsesquioxane by H2 Plasma Treatment, Japanese Journal of Applied Ahysics, Vol. 38, Part 1, No. 6A, June 1999, pages 3482-3486| Reference is also made to a statutory declaration made by Ms Teresa A Ramos, a co-inventor of the invention disclosed in document D1, which was filed by the appellant with the statement of grounds of appeal. III. The appellant requested in writing that the decision under appeal be set aside and that a patent be granted in the following version: Description, pages: 16, 20, 24-26 as published;1, 2, 2a, 3, 4, 4a, 7, 8, 10a, 11-14 and 21, 23 filed with the letter dated 19 January 2015; and5, 5a, 6, 8a, 9, 9a, 10, 15 and 17-19, 19a filed with the letter dated 26 January 2015;(page 22 deleted);| Claims, numbers:    1-15 filed with the letter dated 19 January 2015; Drawings, sheets:   1/2-2/2 as published. IV. Claim 1 (the sole independent claim) reads as follows: "1. A method of imparting hydrophobic properties to a damaged silica dielectric film present on a substrate, wherein said dielectric film has been contacted with at least one etchant or ashing reagent in such a way as to substantially damage or remove previously existing hydrophobicity of said dielectric film, the method comprising: a) contacting the damaged silica dielectric film with a surface modification composition at a concentration and for a time period effective to render the silica dielectric film hydrophobic; and b) removing unreacted surface modification composition, reaction products and mixtures thereof, wherein the surface modification composition comprises at least one surface modification agent suitable for removing silanol moieties from the damaged silica dielectric film, said surface modification agent is a compound having a formula selected from the group consisting of: R3SiNHSiR3, RxSiCly, RxSi(OH)y, R3SiOSiR3, RxSi(OR)y, MpSi(OH)[4 - p], RxSi(OCOCH3)y and combinations thereof, wherein X is an integer ranging from 1 to 3, y is an integer ranging from 1 to 3 such that y=4-X, p is an integer ranging from 2 to 3; each R is independently selected from hydrogen and a hydrophobic organic moiety; each M is an independently selected hydrophobic organic moiety; and R and M can be the same or different." V. The Examining Division argued essentially as follows with respect to the main request then on file: Claims 17, 19, 26, 27, and 30 did not comply with the provisions of Article 123(2) EPC. The application did not meet the requirements of Article 84 EPC, because claim 1 of the main request attempted to define the invention by a result to be achieved. In particular, claim 1 attempted to define a method to impart hydrophobicity of a silica film by applying a surface modification composition comprising an agent suitable to remove silanol moieties. However, no agents or chemicals to achieve this goal were specified. In the independent device claims, an attempt was made to define devices by referring to their methods of manufacture rather than by defining them by device features. If these method steps indeed imparted different properties on the final device/product, these properties would need to be specified as distinguishable device features and not as method steps. The subject-matter of claim 1 also did not involve an inventive step (Article 56 EPC) in view of the combination of Do Document D2 (the closest prior art) disclosed a method of pretreating a silica dielectric film in order to avoid damage to the film during subsequent processing. The pretreatment (H2 plasma treatment) reduced the formation of silanol (Si-OH) groups during the ashing process step, the silanol groups being responsible for moisture absorption and increase in dielectric constant. The subject-matter of claim 1 differed from the method disclosed in D2 in that the silica dielectric film was treated with a surface modification composition after having been damaged by the ashing step. Document D2 showed that hydrophobicity was desirable, that the ashing process damaged the film by changing the surface groups of the film to silanol groups which are hydrophilic, and that the disclosed pretreatment did not completely inhibit damage to the films. Hence, the objective technical problem was how to further improve the hydrophobicity of the damaged silica dielectric film. Dl disclosed a method for increasing hydrophobicity of silica dielectric films comprising contacting a silica film with a surface modification composition which comprises an agent suitable for removing silanol moieties from the silica film (silylation of silanol moieties). Moreover, Dl disclosed the surface modification compositions as claimed in claim 1 [of the auxiliary request, now in claim 1 of the main request]. Dl further taught removing unreacted surface modification composition from the film. The skilled person, when searching for a method to improve hydrophobicity of a silica dielectric film, would inevitably consult Dl which disclosed such a method. As a consequence, the skilled person would take the teaching of Dl to increase the hydrophobicity and combine it with the teaching of D2. The objections against the main request under Articles 123(2) and 56 EPC, as well as the objections against the subject-matter of the independent product claims of the main request under Article 84 EPC, also applied mutatis mutandis to the auxiliary request on which the contested decision was based. VI. The appellant's arguments may be briefly summarised as follows: The claims objected to by the Examining Division under Article 123(2) EPC had been deleted in their entirety. In relation to Article 84 EPC, claim 1 was now almost identical to claim 1 of the first auxiliary request before the Examining Division, against which no clarity objection had been raised. The skilled person would not arrive at something falling within the scope of claim 1 by combining the teaching of Dl with the disclosure in D2. The problems described in Dl and the problems described in the present Application were different. This was an important distinction, and "has not been given proper consideration by the Examining Division." The claimed invention provides a solution to the problem of imparting hydrophobic properties to a damaged silica dielectric film present on a substrate, wherein said dielectric film has been contacted with at least one etchant or ashing reagent in such a way as to substantially damage or remove previously existing hydrophobicity of said dielectric film. There is nothing in the art that would lead one to believe that the materials of Dl could be used to repair damage from such etchants or ashing reagents as taught by the Applicant. Dl had nothing to do with a silica dielectric film which had been damaged, but concerned the production of a nanoporous silica dielectric film, and the subsequent treatment of the undamaged nanoporous silica dielectric film by contacting it with a surface modification agent. This was the end of the process disclosed in Dl and was the starting point of the present method. Document D2, like D1, was unrelated to the treatment of damaged films, and focused on the preventive benefits of hydrogen plasma on films which had not been contacted with an etching or ashing reagent prior to the hydrogen plasma treatment. Furthermore, one of ordinary skill in the art would have expected a post-etch silylation treatment to be undesirable, as it would be expected that the silylation agent would add an undesirable build-up on the side walls inside the freshly etched vias and/or trenches by reaction with silanols at the via/trench sidewalls.