--- PAGE 1 ---
20

25

30

27
MAIN REQUEST:

CLAIMS:

1. A method of imparting hydrophobic properties to a damaged silica
dielectric film present on a substrate, wherein said dielectric film has been
contacted with at least one etchant or ashing reagent in such a way as to
substantially damage or remove previously existing hydrophobicity of said
dielectric film, the method comprising:

(a) contacting the damaged silica dielectric film with a surface
modification composition at a concentration and for a time
period effective to render the silica dielectric film hydrophobic;
and

(b) | removing unreacted surface modification composition, reaction
products and mixtures thereof,

wherein the surface modification composition comprises at least one surface
modification agent suitable for removing silanol moieties from the damaged
silica dielectric film, said surface modification agent is a compound having a
formula selected from the group consisting of: RsSiNHSiR3, R,SiCly,
RxSi(OH)y, RsSiOSiRs, RxSi(OR)y, MpSi(OH)4 - pj, RxSi(OCOCHs), and
combinations thereof,

wherein X is an integer ranging from 1 to 3,

y is an integer ranging from 1 to 3 such that y=4-X,

p is an integer ranging from 2 to 3;

each R is independently selected from hydrogen and a hydrophobic

organic moiety;
each M is an independently selected hydrophobic organic moiety; and R and

M can be the same or different.

--- PAGE 2 ---
10

15

20

25

30

28

2. The method of claim 1, wherein the etchant-damaged nanoporous

silica dielectric film is subjected to wet cleaning prior to step (a).

3. The method of claim 1, wherein the surface modification composition
comprises a compound selected from the group consisting of,
acetoxytrimethylsilane, acetoxysilane, diacetoxydimethylsilane,
methyltriacetoxysilane, | phenyltriacetoxysilane, diphenyldiacetoxysilane,
methyltriethoxysilane, dimethyldiethoxysilane, trimethylethoxysilane,
methyltrimethoxysilane, dimethyldimethoxysilane, trimethylmethoxysilane,
methyltrichlorosilane, dimethyldichlorosilane, trimethylchlorsilane,
methylsilane, dimethylsilane, trimethylsilane, hexamethyldisilazane, 2-
trimethylsiloxypent-2-ene-4-one, n-(trimethylsilyl)acetamide, 2-(trimethylsilyl)
acetic acid, n-(trimethylsilyl)imidazole, trimethylsilylpropiolate,
trimethylsilyl(trimethylsiloxy)-acetate, nonamethyltrisilazane,
hexamethyldisiloxane, trimethylsilanol, triethylsilanol, triphenylsilanol, — t-
butyldimethylsilanol, diphenylsilanediol, trimethoxysilane, — triethoxysilane,
trichlorosilane, and combinations thereof.

4. The method of claim 1, wherein the silica dielectric film is either

nanoporous Or nonporous.

5. The method of claim 1, wherein the silica dielectric film is a

methylhydridosiloxane film.

6. The method of claim 3, wherein the surface modification composition
comprises methyltriacetoxysilane.

7. The method of claim 1, wherein the surface modification composition
comprises a solvent selected from the group consisting of ketones, ethers,
esters, hydrocarbons, and combinations thereof.

--- PAGE 3 ---
10

15

20

25

30

29

8. The method of claim 1, wherein the etchant is a plasma comprising
atoms, ions and/or radicals selected from the group consisting of oxygen,
fluorine, hydrogen, nitrogen and combinations thereof

9. The method of claim 1, wherein the etchant is a wet etchant that
comprises at least one agent selected from the group consisting of: an
amide, an alcohol, an alcoholamine, an amine, a triamine, an acid, a base

and combinations thereof.

10. The method of claim 9, wherein the amide is selected from the group
consisting of N-methylpyrrolidinone, dimethylformamide, dimethylacetamide
and combinations thereof.

11. The method of claim 9, wherein the alcohol is selected from the group

consisting of ethanol, 2-propanol and combinations thereof.

12. The method of claim 9, wherein the etchant comprises at least one
agent selected from the group consisting of ethanolamine, ethylenediamine,
triethylamine, N,Ndiethylethylenediamine, diethylenetriamine, amine.
ethylenediaminetetracetic acid; organic, acetic acid, formic acid,
tetramethylammonium acetate, sulfuric acid, phosphoric acid, hydrofluoric
acid; ammonium fluoride, ammonium hydroxide, tetramethyl ammonium
hydroxide, hydroxl amine and combinations thereof, provided that the
combinations are of agents that do not neutralize one another.

13. |The method of claim 1, wherein the surface modification composition
is contacted with the damaged silica dielectric film in a state selected from

the group consisting of liquid, vapor or gas, and plasma.

14. The method of claim 13, wherein a plasma derived from a silane

compound is used as the surface modification composition.

--- PAGE 4 ---
30

15. |The method of claim 13 wherein the surface modification composition
is a plasma derived from a compound selected from the group consisting of a
hydrocarbon, an aldehyde, an ester, an ether, and combinations thereof.