The applicant (appellant) lodged an appeal against the decision of the Examining Division refusing European patent application No. 99304645.7 for lack of inventive step in the subject-matter of the independent claims of all requests. II. With the statement of grounds of appeal, the appellant replaced all claim requests with a single new request comprising claims 1 to 8. As an auxiliary measure, it requested oral proceedings. III. In a communication accompanying a summons to oral proceedings, the Board expressed doubts in respect of the inventive step reasoning set forth in the decision under appeal, in particular the Examining Division's broad interpretation of certain claim features and its choice of closest prior art. Nevertheless, the subject-matter of the independent claims appeared to lack an inventive step in view of the following document: D8:  US 5598279 A, published on 28 January 1997. IV. With a letter dated 9 January 2015, the appellant withdrew its request for oral proceedings and requested a decision based on the current status of the application. The appellant did not comment in substance on the Board's communication. V. Oral proceedings were held on 6 March 2015 in the absence of the appellant. At the end of the oral proceedings, the chairman pronounced the Board's decision. VI. The appellant requested that the decision under appeal be set aside and that a patent be granted on the basis of claims 1 to 8 filed with the statement of grounds of appeal. VII. Independent claim 1 reads as follows: "An integrated image input/output apparatus (10) for enabling a user of a computer (30) connected to said integrated image input/output apparatus (10) over a network to output image data, said integrated image input/output apparatus (10) comprising: an operation panel (4b) including a start button (4c), image data input means (2a), being a document scanner, for inputting image data by reading a document when the start button (4c) is pressed, and image data output means (1a), being a printer, for printing the image data; storage means (9) for storing the inputted image data; attribute information generating means (3) for issuing a registration number which uniquely identifies the inputted image data in the integrated image input/output apparatus (10), in response to the start button (4c) being pressed, and generating attribute information for the inputted image data, the attribute information containing the issued registration number; image data management means (8) for adding a location of the inputted image data to be stored on the storage means (9) to the attribute information for the image data, and recording the attribute information in an attribute information table (9a) on the storage means (9); and publication means (6) for conducting data communications with the computer (30) over the network, for sending data over the network to create on the computer (30) a list for displaying items of records in the attribute information table (9a) and clickable items for specifying the stored image data to be outputted; in response to a list transfer request from the computer (30) and for, upon receipt of an output request from the computer (30) together with the registration number of the image data specified by using the created list, notifying the image data management means (8) of the received registration number, and wherein the image data management means (8) fetches the image data to be outputted from the storage means (9) according to the location of the image data corresponding to the notified registration number, and the image data output means (1a) prints the fetched image data, the image data being printed without passing through the network."