Title: Document circulating apparatus with automatic deletion of data

Abstract: An apparatus for circulating documents among a number of computer terminals in an office. The apparatus includes a device for reading images which are then stored. The image may then be read out from the storage. A controller controls the storage of the image and the reading of the image from storage. The apparatus also includes a device for forming a network system with a number of terminals so that the various terminals can read images from storage. The apparatus will automatically delete data from the storage under various conditions.

Type: US Patent

Claims: 

1. A document circulating apparatus for providing documents to a plurality of terminals comprising:
an image reading device;
storing means for storing image data and document data;
control means for controlling said storing means;
system constructing means for constructing a network system for connecting said plurality of terminals; and
image outputting means;
said apparatus automatically deleting, among the image data and the document data stored in said storing means, particular data;
said apparatus managing the access condition of terminals or users in relation to the image data and the document data presented.
2. An apparatus as claimed in claim 1, wherein said apparatus automatically deletes, when a term for presenting the image data and the document data and designated by the user expires or a deleting data is reached, said image data and said document data.
3. An apparatus as claimed in claim 1, wherein even after a designated term for presentation or a deleting date has expired, said apparatus automatically prints out, if the user has not accessed the image data and the document data presented, said image data and said document data as data meant for said user and automatically deletes said image data and said document data stored in said storing means.
4. An apparatus as claimed in claim 1, wherein said apparatus designates the users who should access the image data and the document data indicated and, after all the users have accessed said image data and said document data, automatically deletes said image data and said document data.
5. An apparatus as claimed in claim 1, wherein when a predetermined period of time expires without the users to access the image data and the document data and designated beforehand accessing said image data or said document data, said apparatus prints out said image data and said document data meant for said user and automatically deletes said image data and said document data stored in said storing means even if a deleting date or a term is not designated.
6. An apparatus as claimed in claim 1, wherein said apparatus allows the user to designate a deleting order and deletes, when a hard disk becomes full, the image information and the document information in accordance with said deleting order to thereby store new image data and document data in said hard disk.
7. A document circulating apparatus comprising:
an image reading device;
storing means for storing image data and document data;
control means for controlling said storing means;
system constructing means for constructing a network system; and
image outputting means;
said apparatus automatically deleting, among the image data and the document data stored in said storing means, particular data,
said apparatus designating terminals or users who should access the image data and the document data presented and managing access condition of the terminals or users.
8. An apparatus as claimed in claim 7, wherein said apparatus automatically deletes, when a term for presenting the image data and the document data and designated by the user expires or a deleting data is reached, said image data and said document data.
9. An apparatus as claimed in claim 7, wherein even after a designated term for presentation or a deleting date has expired, said apparatus automatically prints out, if the user has not accessed the image data and the document data presented, said image data and said document data as data meant for said user and automatically deletes said image data and said document data stored in said storing means.
10. An apparatus as claimed in claim 7, wherein after all the users have accessed said image data and said document data, said apparatus automatically deletes said image data and said document data.
11. An apparatus as claimed in claim 7, wherein when a predetermined period of time expires without the users to access the image data and the document data and designated beforehand accessing said image data or said document data, said apparatus prints out said image data and said document data meant for said user and automatically deletes said image data and said document data stored in said storing means even if a deleting date or a term is not designated.
12. An apparatus as claimed in claim 7, wherein said apparatus allows the users to designate a deleting order and deletes, when a hard disk becomes full, the image information and the document information in accordance with said deleting order to thereby store new image data and document data in said hard disk.