The present decision relates to the appeal which was filed against the decision of the examining division to refuse European patent application No. 97 927 446.1. The impugned decision was remitted to the post on 3 May 2010. II. In the "Reasons" for the decision, the examining division held that the subject-matter of the claims 1 to 10 according to the sole request then on file did not involve an inventive step in the sense of Article 56 EPC 1973. Particular reference was made, in this respect, to document US-4 849 614 (D4). III. The notice of appeal was filed on 30 June 2010. The appeal fee was paid on the same day. The statement of grounds of appeal was filed on 1 September 2010. IV. With the statement of grounds of appeal, the appellant requested that the decision under appeal be set aside and a patent be granted on the basis of new claims according to a main request or, in the alternative, according to auxiliary requests I and II. As a further auxiliary request, the appellant requested, with the notice of appeal, that oral proceedings be appointed. V. In accordance with the appellant's request, summons to attend oral proceedings were issued. VI. In a communication of the Board pursuant to Article 15(1) RPBA issued on 24 June 2015, the appellant was informed of the provisional opinion of the Board with regard to the requests then pending. In particular, the Board observed that the subject-matter of independent claims 1 and 6 according to the main request then on file did not appear to be new in view of document D4. In this respect, the Board questioned the validity of the argument relied upon by the applicant during the examination proceedings, according to which the claimed invention would distinguish from the prior art in that it would permit to divide a memory dynamically in a first area and a second area depending on the applications being uploaded. According to the Board's provisional view, the claimed wording rather appeared to relate to the mere processing of memory means without any dynamic aspect regarding its structure being involved therein. The Board further expressed the view that the amendments carried out with regard to auxiliary requests I and II then on file would introduce subject-matter extending beyond the original disclosure, contrary to Article 123(2) EPC. VII. With letter of reply dated 2 November 2015, the appellant filed new sets of claims according to a main request and auxiliary requests I to IV. Further, comments regarding the issues of novelty and inventive step were put forward. VIII. Oral proceedings before the Board took place on 3 December 2015 in the presence of the appellant's representative. IX. During the oral proceedings, the appellant withdrew all pending requests and filed a new, single, request. The appellant's final request was that the decision under appeal be set aside and that a patent be granted with: - claims 1 to 8 of the new main request filed during the oral proceedings, - adapted description pages 1 to 3 and 13 to 51 filed during oral proceedings and - figures 1 to 21 as originally filed. X. Claim 1 of the appellant's request reads as follows: "1. An information processing method comprising the steps of: receiving (S3) a command from a provider apparatus (1) providing a service; processing (S4) the command by utilizing a memory means (66) formed of a plurality of physical blocks of the same size, wherein said memory means (66) includes a first area and a second area, said first area including at least a provider area definition block storing information relating to a provider area (BN0..BN1) consisting of at least a user block in said second area, said at least one user block storing data used by a user, said first area further including access right data defining access rights to said at least one provider area (BN0..BN1), the size of said first area depending on the number of the providers, wherein the number of the providers corresponds to the number of the provider area definition blocks, the size of the second area being equal to the difference between the size of the memory means and the size of the first area, wherein a provider area is allocated to a corresponding provider area definition block, allocating the physical blocks unused as blocks of the first area to the second area for use as user blocks; and transmitting (S5) results of the processing step to the provider apparatus (1), wherein the information processing method further comprises, when a new provider is registered, the steps of: using a physical block as new provider area definition block for the new provider; and allocating a new provider area to the new provider area definition block." Independent claim 5 of the appellant's request reads as follows: "5. An information processing apparatus comprising: receiving means for receiving a command from a provider apparatus (1) providing a service; processing means for processing the command by utilizing a memory means (66) formed of a plurality of physical blocks of the same size, memory means (66) including a first area and a second area, said first area including at least a provider area definition block storing information relating to a provider area (BN0..BN1) consisting of at least a user block in said second area, said at least one user block storing data used by a user, said first area further including access right data defining access rights to said at least one provider area (BN0..BN1), the size of said first area depending on the number of the providers, wherein the number of the providers corresponds to the number of the provider area definition blocks, the size of the second area being equal to the difference between the size of the memory means and the size of the first area, wherein a provider area is allocated to a corresponding provider area definition block; wherein the processing means is configured to allocate the physical blocks unused as blocks of the first area to the second area for use as user blocks; and transmitting means for transmitting (S5) results of the processing step to the provider apparatus (1), wherein the processing means is further configured to perform, when a new provider is registered, the steps of: using a physical block as new provider area definition block for the new provider; allocating a new provider area to the new provider area definition block." Claims 2 to 4 and 6 to 8 depend, respectively, on independent claims 1 and 5.