The applicant (appellant) has appealed against the decision of the Examining Division to refuse the European patent application No. 05729787.1. II. In the contested decision, the Examining Division came to the conclusion that the subject-matter of claim 1 filed during oral proceedings on 4 June 2009 was not novel (Article 54 EPC) with respect to the following prior art: D7: EP-A-0 644 501. III. With the statement of grounds of appeal, the appellant filed a set of claims 1 to 28, essentially corresponding to the claims underlying the contested decision, and requested that the decision under appeal be set aside and a patent be granted on the basis of these claims. IV. With letter dated 18 December 2014, the appellant was summoned to attend oral proceedings to be held before the Board on 10 September 2015. V. In a communication dated 2 June 2015 pursuant to Article 15(1) RPBA, the Board raised a number of objections under Articles 123(2), 83, 84 and 56 EPC, and expressed the preliminary opinion that the present application did not appear to relate to patentable subject-matter. VI. The appellant did not make any submissions in reply to the Board's communication. VII. Oral proceedings were held as scheduled on 10 September 2015 in the absence of the appellant. At the end of these proceedings the chairman pronounced the Board's decision. VIII. Claim 1 according to the appellant's request reads as follows: "Process for automatically identifying, analysing and estimating deformations particularly in motor vehicles, said process comprising the following steps: - loading image data relevant to at least a three-dimensional image of a damaged vehicle in a vehicle image memory; - in the image memory of damaged vehicles, calling up image data of at least a three-dimensional image of a sample vehicle from a database of sample vehicle images, said sample vehicle image being the image of a vehicle type corresponding to the damaged vehicle type; - displaying image data relevant to damaged vehicle image and to the corresponding not damaged vehicle type; - automatically comparing the three-dimensional image of the damaged vehicle with the corresponding three-dimensional image of the sample vehicle identifying, through an automatic comparison between said two images: damage location or deformation and detecting deformed regions; - selecting by means of delimitation or highlighting graphic tools damaged or deformed regions identified by the automatic comparison on at least one of the two images; - storing image pixel and respective image data, selected as corresponding to damaged or deformed regions as result of said comparison and selection steps, in a memory of a work program; - computing perimeter, area and/or volume of damaged or deformed region or regions and/or further morphologic parameters by means of algorithms implemented by the work program, and/or identifying the location in space of the damage on the vehicle using the computation algorithm implemented by the work program on damaged or deformed regions and/or on results of said comparison stored in the work program memory; - computing a deformation gravity degree and assigning said deformation gravity degree to each damaged or deformed region; - computing labour times and costs for repairing the damaged or deformed region, starting from such computed perimeter, area and/or volume and/or morphologic parameters, using a database of repair times and costs available for every vehicle type; and - producing a virtual image of the sample vehicle which is constituted by the virtual image set of individual structural p Claims 2 to 14 are dependent on claim 1. Claim 15 reads as follows: "System for identifying, analysing and estimating deformations particularly in motor vehicles, according to the process of any one of the previous claims, characterized in that it comprises at least a central processing unit (CPU) or a central logical unit to which the following are associated: - at least a program for performing the steps of a process according to any one of the previous claims, - at least a memory for storing said program, - at least a memory for storing image data of at least a vehicle, - at least a database of three-dimensional images of sample vehicles, - alphanumeric and/or graphic data or command input means, - selection means for selecting damaged or deformed regions in said vehicle, - at least a unit for printing and/or displaying results; and - at least a scanning unit for acquiring the three-dimensional image of a damaged vehicle, which unit is adapted to provide a two-dimensional or three- dimensional set of image data stored as image data of the damage vehicle." Claims 16 to 28 are dependent on claim 15. IX. In the statement of grounds of appeal, the appellant contested that document D7 anticipated the process according to claim 1 and essentially argued that the prior art merely gave an unordered list of possible functions that a computer would put at an expert's disposal to perform certain operations. Thus, it was not possible to derive from document D7 the ordered list of process steps recited in claim 1. Furthermore, a skilled person whose technical purpose was to enable a workshop worker to use a tool that, as shown in D7, had been developed for the expert, would have found no indication in D7 as to how to simplify and automate the known process. Hence, the subject-matter of claim 1 fulfilled the requirements of novelty and inventive step according to Articles 54 and 56 EPC.