--- PAGE 1 ---
SET OF CLAIMS (APPEAL PROCEDURE)

1. Process for automatically identifying, analysing
and estimating deformations particularly in = motor
vehicles, said process comprising the following steps:

- loading image data relevant to at least a three-
dimensional image of a damaged vehicle in a vehicle image
memory;

- in the image memory of damaged vehicles, calling
up image data of at least a three-dimensional image of a
sample vehicle from a database of sample vehicle images,
said sample vehicle image being the image of a vehicle
type corresponding to the damaged vehicle type;

- displaying image data relevant to damaged vehicle
image and to the corresponding not damaged vehicle type;

- automatically comparing the three-dimensional
image of the damaged vehicle with the corresponding
three-dimensional image of the sample vehicle
identifying, through an automatic comparison between said
two images: damage location or deformation and detecting
deformed regions;

- selecting by means of delimitation or highligthing
graphic tools damaged or deformed regions identified by
the automatic comparison on at least one of the two

images;

--- PAGE 2 ---
~ storing image pixel and respective image data,
selected as corresponding to damaged or deformed regions
as result of said comparison and selection steps, in a
memory of a work program;

- computing perimeter, area and/or volume of damaged
or deformed region or regions and/or further morphologic
parameters by means of algorithms implemented by the work
program, and/or identifying the location in space of the
damage on the vehicle using the computation algorithm
implemented by the work program on damaged or deformed
regions and/or on results of said comparison stored in
the work program memory;

- computing a deformation gravity degree and
assigning said deformation gravity degree to each damaged
or deformed region;

- computing labour times and costs for repairing the
damaged or deformed regions, starting from such computed
perimeter, area and/or volume and/or morphologic
parameters, using a database of repair times and costs
available for every vehicle type; and

- producing a virtual image of the sample vehicle
which is constituted by the virtual image set of
individual structural parts of the vehicle forming
indipendent structural units, that is individual vehicle

parts, which virtual image can be displayed as image of

--- PAGE 3 ---
assembled vehicle or as exploded vehicle image, each
structural part of the vehicle being univocally
identified by an identification code, and corresponding
to the same structural part of the damaged vehicle.

2. Process according to claim 1, characterized in that a
comparison is made between image data relevant to image
of damaged vehicle and image data relevant to sample
vehicle image, damaged and/or deformed regions being
identified by image data difference between image data
relevant to damaged vehicle and image data relevant to
sample vehicle.

3. Process according to claim 1 or 2, characterized in
that image data are composed of a three-dimensional array
of image data, each element of said array being
univocally correlated to an image pixel of a two-
dimensional image according to a plane passing through
said pixel and the comparison between image data of
damaged vehicle and image data of sample vehicle being
constituted by a comparison of image data that in the two
image data arrays have the same location.

4. Process according to one or more of the preceding
claims 1 to 3, characterized in that area and/or volume
of image region relevant to vehicle image pixel
coinciding with damaged region is computed, which region

is determined by selection means and/or by automatically

--- PAGE 4 ---
comparing image data of damaged vehicle with image data
of sample vehicle.

5. Process according to claim 1, characterized in that at
least an external view of vehicle is defined, preferably
various external views of vehicle taken from different
sides thereof and/or in perspective, and at least an
inner view of vehicle is defined, preferably various
inner views of vehicle similarly to external views, one
or more structural parts of a vehicle being identified as
damaged parts by an automatic comparison between virtual
images of the sample vehicle and virtual images of the
damaged vehicle.

6. Process according to one or more of the preceding
claims 1 to 5, characterized in that one or more images
of a damaged vehicle are acquired from inside the
vehicle, namely one or more images of the damaged vehicle
inside.

7. Process according to claim 1, characterized in that
said step of selecting is performed by drawing a close
boundary line surrounding the vehicle image region
coinciding with the damaged region, and by identifying
image data of the pixel subset being inside said boundary
line as pixel and image data corresponding to damaged or
deformed regions of the vehicle.

8. Process according to claim 1, characterized in that

--- PAGE 5 ---
the automatic selection of a sample vehicle and/or the
automatic selection of damaged or deformed region or
regions is confirmed or not confirmed by an operator by
inputting an agreement or denial command for said sample
vehicle.

9, Process according to claim 1, characterized in that
said step of computing labour times and costs is divided
into three steps: computing labour times and costs for
the reparation operation of sheet metal or the working
operation of sheet metal; computing labour times and
costs for painting; and computing labour times and costs
for part assembling/disassembling.

10. Process according to claim 9, characterized in that
it further comprises the step of providing a minimum
estimation and a maximum estimation of times and/or costs
needed for the repairing operation of sheet metal or the
working operation of sheet metal, and/or for painting
and/or for part assembling/disassembling.

11. Process according to claim 1, characterized in that,
for each damaged region, the process further comprises
the step of comparing said costs/times needed for the
reparation with costs/times needed for completely
replacing said damaged part with a new part.

12. Process according to claim 11, characterized in that

the process further comprises the step of choosing

--- PAGE 6 ---
whether replacing said damaged or deformed region or
whether repairing the same region by choosing the lowest
cost/time.
13. Process according to claim 1, characterized in that
the process further comprises the step of comparing parts
to be replaced with parts in a warehouse, producing a
report with available parts/not available parts.
14. Process according to claim 13, characterized in that
the process further comprises the step of producing an
order, by paper or electronically, for supplying the
warehouse with parts taken for replacement and not
available parts.
15. System for identifying, analysing and estimating
deformations particularly in motor vehicles, according to
the process of any one of the previous claims,
characterized in that it comprises at least a central
processing unit (CPU) or a central logical unit to which
the following are associated:

- at least a program for performing the steps of a
process according to any one of the previous claims,

- at least a memory for storing said program,

~ at least a memory for storing image data of at
least a vehicle,

- at least a database of three-dimensional images

of sample vehicles,

--- PAGE 7 ---
- alphanumeric and/or graphic data or command input
means,

- selection means for selecting damaged or deformed
regions in said vehicle,

- at least a unit for printing and/or displaying
results; and

- at least a scanning unit for acquiring the three-
dimensional image of a damaged vehicle, which unit is
adapted to provide a two-dimensional or three-dimensional
set of image data stored as image data of the damaged
vehicle.
16. System according to claim 15, characterized in that
the alphanumeric and/or graphic data or command input
means are means for inputting a qualitative-type
estimation parameter of a damage, namely said deformation
gravity degree, whose values are low, medium, or high.
17. System according to claim 15 or 169, characterized in
that the alphanumeric and/or graphic data or command
input means are means for inputting at least a
quantitative-type estimation parameter, namely a
measurement.
18. System according to claim 16 or 17, characterized in
that said estimation parameter is proportional to a
deformation depth and/or to a deformation surface in one

or more points of the deformed or damaged region.

--- PAGE 8 ---
19. System according to one or more of the preceding
claims 15 to 18, characterized in that the program
comprises a subroutine for comparing at least two three-
dimensional or two-dimensional arrays of image data,
which subroutine gains access to the image data memory of
damaged vehicles and to the image data memory of sample
vehicles, and executes a comparison action of image data
relevant to pixels having the same position in the pixel
set composing the image.

20. System according to claim 19, characterized in that
the program has a routine for computing the area of the
deformed region and/or the deformation volume and/or the
deformation depth.

21. System according to one or more of the preceding
claims 15 to 20, characterized in that the system has a
memory wherein image data of at least a portion of
structural parts of a sample vehicle are stored, the
structural parts being autonomous units, namely units
adapted to be disassembled and assembled to. other
structural parts of the vehicle, and the system further
has a program for displaying said structural parts in
their assembling state in a finished sample vehicle or in
their exploded state or in their trasparency state.

22. System according to claim 21, characterized in that a

structural part of a vehicle is the part wherein pixels

--- PAGE 9 ---
fall that coincide with image regions identified as
damaged and/or deformed regions, said structural parts
being identified as damaged and/or deformed parts stored
in a memory.

23. System according to one or more of the preceding
claims 15 to 22, characterized in that a database of
parts constituting vehicles is provided, each part being
identified by a code.

24. System according to one or more of the preceding
claims 15 to 23, characterized in that the CPU, by means
of the work program, is adapted to produce and combine,
with each vehicle part affected by the deformation or
damage, a gravity degree of the deformation proportional
to the deformation itself, namely to size and/or area
and/or volume of the damaged part.

25. System according to one or more of the preceding
claims 15 to 24, characterized in that the system further
has a time and/or cost database for repairing and
replacing motor vehicle parts.

26. System according to claims 23, characterized in that,
for each different part identified as deformed or damaged
part, the system, by means of the CPU and the work
program, is adapted to estimate cost and operations
needed to rebuild the part itself, by comparison with the

times and costs database of motor vehicle parts.

--- PAGE 10 ---
27. System according to claim 23, characterized in that
said motor vehicle part database for each motor vehicle
part has also a list of parts to be disassembled /
reassembled for dissassembling / reassembling each single
part.

28. System according to one or more of the preceding
claims 15 to 27, characterized in that the system is
connected with a database of motor vehicle parts in a

warehouse.

10