--- PAGE 1 ---
EP 06 826 464.7-2201 147 016 q8/s5/sca
BioArray Solutions Ltd. April 20, 2015

MAIN REQUEST

1. A method of identifying blood product donors transfusion
compatible with a particular recipient or multiple
recipients on the basis of cross-matching transfusion

antigen genotypes, comprising:

representing candidate donor and recipient minor blood
types as bit strings, where one value of a bit
represents that a particular blood type antigen is
present and another value represents that said antigen
is not present, and where the bit strings comprise a
unit of at least two bits representing an antigen

configuration of a specific phenotype;

matching the candidate donor and recipient bit strings
by respectively forming a Boolean expression between
corresponding bits of said candidate donor and recipient
bit strings, said Boolean expression being given by
{ [Bali AND NOT [Br]; } EQ 0, wherein [Bali is the candidate
donor bit for the i-th antigen and [Pr]; is the recipient
bit for the i-th antigen, wherein the Boolean expression
yields a first value in the event of a match, indicating
compatibility, and a second value in the event of a

mismatch, indicating incompatibility; and
recording results of the Boolean expression.

2. The method of claim 1 wherein, in the recorded results,
compatibility is indicated by a value of TRUE ("1") of
the string-matching expression, and incompatibility is
indicated by a value of FALSE ("0").

3. The method of claim 1 wherein a cross-matching

criterion requiring that the candidate donor not have

--- PAGE 2 ---
any antigens the recipient does not have is represented
by said Boolean expression involving the candidate donor
blood type bit string and the recipient blood type bit
string, in which the recipient blood type bit string,
[8+], serves as a mask to zero all the bits of the
‘candidate donor blood type code [fg] for which the

corresponding bit in [8] is 1.

The method of claim 1 wherein, when comparing the blood.
type of the recipient to the blood types of multiple
candidate donors of a potentially compatible blood type,
the results of the Boolean expression are recorded as a

vector.

The method of claim 1 wherein, when comparing the blood
types of multiple recipients to the blood types of
multiple candidate donors of potentially compatible
blood type, the results of the Boolean expression are

recorded as a matrix.

The method of claim 1 wherein the method is applied to
identify prospective matches in a registry of typed

donors.

The method of claim 6 wherein the identification is

performed using an algorithm,

The method of claim 1 wherein the representation of
candidate donor and recipient strings is in binary,

octal or hexadecimal form.

The method of claim 1 wherein the bit string
representing a recipient blood type is augmented to
include additional antigens to which the recipient has

formed antibodies.