--- PAGE 1 ---
EP Application No.: 05 759 549.8

Applicant: Expedia, Inc.
Our Ref.: EP46839RK148cre
Date: January 31, 2011

CLAIMS — MAIN REQUEST

A method for presenting rates for travel services, the method comprising:

receiving at a travel server (106) a consumer's selection of a travel service relayed from a
client device (102),

upon the travel server (106) receiving the consumer's selection of a travel service,
determining a proposed date of travel from the received consumer selection, and
obtaining a dynamic range of available rates for a travel service from a least expensive
rate to a most expensive rate from rate plan data, including calling (630) a cache of an
inventory database (108) to obtain rate plan data associated with the travel service and

retrieving (640) the rate plan data from the cache,

subdividing the dynamic range of available rates into a limited number of pricing bands,
wherein each pricing band represents a portion of the dynamic range of available rates,

determining an approximate rate for the travel service based on the pricing band
corresponding to the portion of the dynamic range of available rates within which an
exact rate for the travel service falls, and

presenting to the client device (102) the approximate rate for the travel service in an
interactive interface using a characteristic keyed to the corresponding pricing band, the
characteristic including at least one of a graphical and audio characteristic that conveys a
relative expense of the approximate rate for the travel service compared to other
approximate rates for the travel service presented in the same interface,

wherein obtaining the dynamic range of available rates for the travel service from the
least expensive rate to the most expensive rate from the rate plan data includes obtaining
rates available during or close to the proposed date of travel, and presenting the
approximate rate for the travel service is presenting the approximate rate for the travel
service for a particular date during or close to the proposed date of travel.

--- PAGE 2 ---
The method of Claim 1, wherein determining the proposed date of travel from the
received consumer selection comprises determining whether the consumer's selection is
dated or undated and, if undated the proposed date of travel defaults to the current date.

The method of Claim 1, wherein determining the proposed date of travel from the
received consumer selection comprises determining whether the consumer's selection is
dated or undated and, if dated, the proposed date of travel is the consumer's selected
date.

The method of Claim 1, wherein the interactive interface is an interactive calendar in
which the characteristic keyed to the corresponding pricing band is displayed in a
particular cell of the interactive calendar that represents the particular date during or
close to the proposed date of travel.

The method of Claim 4, wherein the cells of the interactive calendar represent a month in
which the particular date during or close to the proposed date of travel occurs and a
month proximate to the month in which the particular date during or close to the

proposed date of travel occurs.

The method of Claim 5, wherein obtaining rates available during or close to a proposed
date of travel includes obtaining rates available during a period of time, the period of time
including a month during or close to which the proposed date of travel occurs plus an
additional number of months proximate to the month during or close to which the

proposed date of travel occurs.

The method of Claim 6, wherein the period of time is based on a type of the travel service
for which rates are obtained to reflect reasonable variations in the rates occurring over

the period of time.

The method of Claim 6; wherein the period of time is at least a portion of one of an hour,

a day, a week, a month, and a year.

The method of Claim 6, wherein the cells of the interactive calendar represent a month
beyond the period of time for which rates for the travel service can be obtained and the
cells are displayed with a different graphical characteristic conveying that rates were not
obtainable.

--- PAGE 3 ---
10.

11.

12.

13.

14.

15.

16.

17.

The method of Claim 1, wherein the travel service is one of a lodging service and a

transportation service.

The method of Claim 10, wherein the travel service is the lodging service and the input
indicating the proposed date of travel includes an input indicating at least one of a

proposed check-in date and a proposed check-out date.

The method of Claim 1, wherein obtaining the dynamic range of available rates for the
travel service from the least expensive rate to the most expensive rate includes obtaining
available rates for travel providers located at or near a proposed destination of travel on a
proposed date of travel, and presenting the approximate rate for the travel service
includes presenting the approximate rate for a particular travel provider located at or near
the proposed destination on the proposed date.

The method of Claim 12, wherein the interactive interface is an interactive map in which
the characteristic keyed to the corresponding pricing band is displayed in an icon
superimposed in a location on the interactive map, wherein the icon represents the
particular travel provider located at or near the proposed destination.

The method of Claim 12, wherein obtaining the dynamic range of available rates for the
travel service from the least expensive rate to the most expensive rate includes obtaining
available rates for travel providers located at or near the proposed destination during a
period of time, the period of time including a month during or close to which the proposed
date of travel occurs plus an additional number of months proximate to the month during
or close to which the proposed date of travel occurs.

The method of Claim 14, wherein obtaining the dynamic range of rates for travel
providers located at or near the proposed destination includes obtaining average lowest
daily rates from the least expensive average lowest daily rate to the most expensive
average lowest daily rate available during the period of time.

The method of Claim 14, wherein obtaining the dynamic range of rates for the travel
providers located at or near the proposed destination includes obtaining median daily
rates from the least expensive median rate to the most expensive median rate available
during the period of time.

The method of Claim 14, wherein obtaining the dynamic range of rates for the travel
providers located at or near the proposed destination includes obtaining rates based on a

--- PAGE 4 ---
18.

19.

20.

21.

22

23.

24.

25.

length of stay from the least expensive rate for the length of stay to the most expensive
rate for the length of stay available during the period of time.

The method of Claim 14, wherein the period of time is based on a type of the travel
provider for which rates are obtained to reflect reasonable variations in the rates

occurring over the period of time.
The method of Claim 14, wherein the period of time is at least six months.

The method of Claim 1, wherein the graphical characteristic that conveys a relative
expense of the approximate rate for the travel service compared to other approximate
rates for the travel service presented in the same interface is one of a color, an intensity,

a shade, and a pattern.

The method of Claim 1, wherein the audio characteristic that conveys a relative expense
of the approximate rate for the travel service compared to other approximate rates for the
travel service presented in the same interface is a distinctive sound emitted when

interacting with a display of the characteristic on the interactive interface.

The method of Claim 1, wherein the characteristic that conveys a relative expense of the
approximate rate for the travel service compared to other approximate rates for the travel
service presented in the same interface is animated when interacting with a display of the

characteristic on the interactive interface.

The method of Claim 1, wherein the pricing band that represents the portion of the
dynamic range of available rates that includes the least expensive rate is defined by a
single value equal to the least expensive rate that was obtained in the dynamic range of
available rates.

The method of Claim 1, wherein the pricing bands that represent each portion of the
dynamic range of available rates that do not include the least expensive rate are defined
by a from value representing the lowest rate in the portion, and a to value representing
the highest rate in the portion.

The method of Claim 24, wherein the from value is computed using a first algorithm, L +
((x-1)*(R/N-1)) + 1, and the to value is computed using a second algorithm, L + (x*(R/N-
1)) wherein L represents the least expensive rate that was obtained in the dynamic range
of available rates, R represents the range of rates that were obtained as determined by

--- PAGE 5 ---
26.

27.

28.

29.

subtracting the least expensive from the most expensive rate, N represents the limited
number of pricing bands, and x represents an integer value incremented from 1 to N-1 for
computing each successive one of the limited number of pricing bands.

The method of Claim 1, wherein each pricing band represents a substantially equal

portion of the dynamic range of available rates.
The method of Claim 1, wherein the limited number of pricing bands is five.

A system for presenting rates for travel services, the system comprising a travel server
(106):

wherein the travel server (106) is adapted for receiving a consumer's selection of a travel
service, determining a proposed date of travel from the received consumer selection, and
obtaining a dynamic range of available rates for the travel service from a least expensive
rate to a most expensive rate from rate plan data associated with the travel service, the

travel server (106) including:

a rate generator (460) for generating an approximate rate for the travel service based on
a pricing band correlated to the portion of the dynamic range of available rates within

which an exact rate for the travel service falls; the system further comprising

an interactive rate interface (365), communicatively coupled to the rate generator (460),
in which to present the approximate rate for the travel service using a characteristic
keyed to the associated pricing band, the characteristic including at least one of a
graphical and audio characteristic that conveys a relative expense of the approximate
rate for the travel service compared to other approximate rates for the travel service
presented in the same interface,

wherein obtaining the dynamic range of available rates for the travel service from the
least expensive rate to the most expensive rate from the rate plan data includes
obtaining rates available during or close to the proposed date of travel, and presenting
the approximate rate for the travel service is presenting the approximate rate for the
travel service for a particular date during or close to the proposed date of travel.

The system of Claim 28, wherein determining the proposed date of travel from the
received consumer selection comprises determining whether the consumer's selection is
dated or undated and, if undated the proposed date of travel defaults to the current date.

--- PAGE 6 ---
30.

31.

32.

The system of Claim 28, wherein determining the proposed date of travel from the
received consumer selection comprises determining whether the consumer’s selection is
dated or undated and, if dated, the proposed date of travel is the consumer’s selected
date.

The system of Claim 28, wherein the dynamic range of available rates for the travel
service spans a least expensive rate to a most expensive rate, and further wherein the
dynamic range is subdivided into a limited number of portions based on the least
expensive rate and the most expensive rate, including the portion within which the exact
rate for the travel service falls.

A computer-accessible medium having encoded thereon instructions to present rates for
travel services, wherein the instructions, when executed by a computing apparatus,
cause the computing apparatus to: perform the method of one of Claims 1 to 27.