Title: Electronic reservation system

Abstract: 
In a web-based reservation system, the user enters requirements such as routes and date ranges at a terminal and submits them to a web server which retrieves a corresponding data set from a reservation database. The user then enters a query that is applied to the retrieved data set to extract a subset thereof for display. The user may apply further queries to the subset, so as to modify the displayed information. In this way, the user may rapidly find and make a suitable reservation without the need repeatedly to send further queries to the server. The terminal displays fare availability information for a range of different dates and/or times, by means of indicia indicating availability of one or more fare types at the associated date and/or time. This allows the user quickly to comprehend fare availability across a range of dates or times.

Type: 
British Patent

Claims: 
1. A method of processing reservation data at a terminal, comprising: receiving as input at the terminal a request for reservation information including one or more reservation criteria" transmitting, said request over the network to a remote server- receP, in(y from the remote server a set of reservation data selected accordilwy to said one or more reservation criteria; receiving as Input at the terminal a selection request: selecting for display a subset of reservation data from Said Set Of Feservatioll data in accordance with the selection request-, and 61splaying, said subset of-res.-r-vation data at the teri-ninal- A method as claimed in claim 1, wherein said oric or more reservation criteria specifics a date range and the set ofreservation data relates to said date range. A method as cla med in claim I where n s# 'd one oi I n I I I 1 (11 -morerese-vatio criteria inclLides a first date ran-e and a second date ran,##e and the set of'reservation data Z7 - relates to said first and second date ranLyes- 4. A method as claimed in claini '), %vhereiri the selection request 'Indicates a date within the first (late ran-c and the selecting step ncludes selecting, as said Subset of reservation data. reservation data relating to a plurality of dates within the second date range, depenclant on the indicated date within the first date ran(Ye. Z#
<Desc/Clms Page number 27>
5, A method as claimed in claim 4, including further receiving as input at the ten-ninal a further selection request indicating one of said plurality of dates within the second date range. 6. A method as claimed in claim 5, including submitting to the remote server a reservation request speci ying the dates indicated by said selection requests. 7. A method as claimed in any preceding claim, wherein said one or more reservation criteria includes a plurality of reservation types and the set of reservation data relates to each of said plurality of reservation types. 8. A method as claimed in claim 7, wherein said selection request indicates a subset of said plurality of reservation types and said subset of reservation data relates to said subset of reservation types. 9. A method as claimed in claim 8, wherein the set of reservation data includes price information relating to each reservation and said selection request causes selection of said subset of reservation data according to said price information. 10. A method as claimed in claim 8 when dependent on claim 2 or claim 3, wherein said subset of reservation data is selected to comprise the lowest price reservation for each day within the date range. 11. A method as claimed in claim 8 when dependent on claim 4, wherein said plurality of dates are selected according to a selection rule dependent on said subset of reservation types. 12. A method as claimed in any preceding claim, further including: receiving as input at the terminal a further request for reservation inforination including one or more further reservation criteria; I
<Desc/Clms Page number 28>
transmittinc, said further request over the network to a remote server; receiving from the remote server a further set of reservation data dependent on said one or more further reservation criteria; selectin- for display a further subset of reservation data from said set of further reservation data in accordance with said selection request" and displaying said ftirther subset of reservation data at the terminal. 13. A method as claimed in claim 12 when dependent on claim 2, wherein said fur-ther reservation criteria includes a further date range and tile further set of- reservation data relates to said further date ran,-e. 14. A method of displaying electronically reser, ation availability infonriation for first and second ranges of'reservable items. comprising: #D stor n,(Y reservation a-,.,al 'lability I I records for said ranges, stoMiL, reservation rules relating to combinations of one or more reservable items from said first range and one or more rcservable items from said second ran(Ye, receiving as MpUt a selection ot'orie or more of said items from one of the first and second ran,es-, determimnL, amended availability information for the items In the other one of' the first and second ran,#-,es on the basis of'said selection and said reservation rules-, and displaying said amended availability information .
<Desc/Clms Page number 29>
15. A method as claimed in claim 14, further including displaying availability information derived from said reservation availability records for said first and second ranges, prior to receiving said selection as input. 16. A method as claimed in claim 14 or 15, wherein said reservation availability records are stored locally. 17. A method as claimed in claim 16, wherein said reservation availability records include an array of availability data, the position within the array indicating the position within the respective range. 18. A method as claimed in any one of claims 14 to 16, wherein said reservation rules are stored locally. 19. A method as claimed in claim 18, wherein the reservation rules are stored as one or more arrays of data, each data value within the array indicating an item from the second range, the position of each data value indicating a corresponding item from the first range. 20. A method of creating a set of reservation availability records for a set of items, including: obtainin- availability information for each of said set of items; and encoding said availability information as data within an array, the position of the data within the array indicating the item to which that data relates. 2 1. A method as claimed in claim 20, wherein said items each include a plurality of subitems, the availability information including information relating to each of said subitems, and the data for each item indicating availability if there is availability for any of the subitems included within that item.
<Desc/Clms Page number 30>
22. A method of receiving and displaying reservation availability information for a set of items within a range, including receiving a data array including availability data for each of said items, and displaying the availability data for each of said items, associated with a value within said range derived from the position of the availability data within said ar-ray. 2 1 A set of reservation availability records created by the method of claim 20 or claim 2 1. 24. A computer program arranged to perform a method according to any one of claims I to I'), when executed at said terminal. 25- A Computer program arran-ed to perforin a method according to any one of claims 14 to _12, vhen executed by a suitably arranged computer. 26. A signal encoding a computer program as claimed in claim 25. 27. An electronic travel reservation system comprising a server accessible over a network by a temiinal, wherein the terminal sends a request specifying a plurality of'dates and a specified route to the server and the server responds with the fare and availability records for the specified dates and route, the terminal then displaying one or more options to select from the requested fare and a 'lab'l'ty records and displayinc, a Subset ofsaid records accordinu to a user val 1 1 1 selection of said one or more options. 28. A system as claimed in claim 27, wherein said displayed options include one or more options to select a specific fare type, and the subset of said records comprises records havina a user-selected fare type. I
<Desc/Clms Page number 31>
29. A system as claimed in claim 27 or claim 28, wherein said displayed options include an option to select a lowest fare and the subset of said records comprises records corresponding to the lowest fare for each of said plurality of dates. 30. A system as claimed in any one of claims 27 to 29, wherein said subset of said records is displayed by displaying some or all of said specified dates, each with an indicium selected from a set of indicia indicating the availability of a fare ZD type for the respective day. 3 1. A method substantially as herein described with reference to the accompanying drawings. 32. A system substantially as herein described with reference to the accompanying drawings.