--- PAGE 1 ---
10

15

20

25

30

Main Request
Claims

A computer system (102, 104), (106), 108), 110) for effecting value exchanges between
financial accounts held in financial institutions by users who may communicate with the
computer system using client apparatus (122a; 122b; 122c) via a communication

network (120), wherein the computer system:
(a) is arranged

(i) for storing a plurality of registered user identification data identifying
respectively a plurality of registered users,
(ii) for storing in association with said registered users respectively the identities
of said financial accounts in relation to which value is to be exchanged when a
transaction is executed, and
(iii) for storing a plurality of pre-existing identifiers which are associated
respectively with said registered users and which are in the form of network
address data intended for communication with the registered user via a
communication network independently of the system;
(b) is arranged for receiving instructions for transactions, each between first and second
registered users, said instructions:
( 1) being received from said first registered user,
(i1) defining the value to be exchanged, and
(11) identifying said second registered user by means of said pre-existing
identifier associated with said second registered user; and
(c) is operable on the basis of said identities of said financial accounts, said pre-existing
identifiers and said values defined in said transaction instructions to effect said
value exchange between said financial accounts, associated with said first and second

registered users.

2. A computer system according to claim 1, operable in response to receipt of a
said transaction instruction from the first registered user to transmit information relating
to said transaction to the second user utilising said identifier associated with the second

user.

--- PAGE 2 ---
10

15

20

25

30

3. A computer system according to claim 2, arranged to await receipt from said
second user of an acknowledgement of said transmitted transaction information before

executing said transaction.

4. A computer system according to claim 3, operable for holding said value in

escrow until receipt of said acknowledgement.

5. A computer system according to any preceding claim, arranged for storing said

network address data in the form of a telephone number.

6. A computer system according to any of claims | to 4, arranged for storing said

network address data in the form of an electronic mail address.

7. A computer system according to any of claims | to 4, arranged for storing, as

said identifiers, a plurality of said forms of said network address data.

8. A computer system according to any preceding claim, arranged for storing the

identities of said financial accounts in the form of bank account details.

9. A computer system according to any preceding claim, arranged for storing the

identities of said financial accounts in the form of credit card account details.

10. | A computer system according to any preceding claim, arranged for storing the

identities of said financial accounts in the form of debit card account details.

11. Communication apparatus for executing transactions, comprising a computer
system (102, 104, 106, 108, 110) according to any preceding claim and a plurality of
client apparatus (122a; 122b; 122c) arranged for communication with said computer
system over a communication network (120) for transmitting said transaction

instructions to said computer system.

--- PAGE 3 ---
12. A storage medium storing instructions for programming programmable
processing apparatus to become configured as a computer system as set out in any of

claims 1 to 10.

13. A signal carrying instructions for programming programmable processing
apparatus to become configured as computer server apparatus as set out in at least one

of claims 1 to 10.