The appeal is against the decision of the Examining Division refusing European patent application No. 08 001 964 on the ground that the claimed subject-matter did not involve an inventive step within the meaning of Article 56 EPC. II. At the end of the oral proceedings held before the Board the appellant confirmed its sole request that the decision under appeal be set aside, and that a patent be granted on the basis of claims 1-4 as filed with the letter dated 10 January 2011. III. The following documents are referred to: D1: WO 2004/027858 A1 D2: US 2006/099773 A1 D4: US 2006/054891 A1 D7: US 2005/191824 A1 D8: US 7 094 667 B1 D9: Kirk H R et al: Plasma-Activated Bonding, Controlled Cleave Process, and Non-Contact Smoothing for Germanium-on-Insulator (GeOI) Manufacturing; Proceedings of the 2004 IEEE International SOI Conference, 4-7 October 2004, pages 65-66. IV. Claim 1 of the main request reads as follows: "A method for manufacturing a semiconductor substrate comprising the steps of (A) to (F) in this order: (A) epitaxially growing a silicon germanium (SiGe) film (11) on a silicon (Si) substrate (10) by a chemical vapor deposition method, wherein the Ge content of the SiGe film (11) is l0% or more by molar ratio; (B) subjecting a heat treatment to the SiGe film (11) at a temperature of not less than 700°C and not more than 1200°C; (C) implanting hydrogen ions into a surface of the SiGe film (11); (D) subjecting a surface activation treatment to a main surface of at least one of the SiGe film (11) and a support substrate (20); (E) bonding the main surfaces of the SiGe film (11) and the support substrate (20) at a temperature of not less than 100°C and not more than 400°C; and (F) applying an external impact to a bonding interface between the SiGe film (11) and the support substrate (20) to mechanically delaminate the SiGe crystal along a hydrogen ion implanted interface (13) of the SiGe film (11), thereby forming a SiGe thin film (14) on the main surface of the support substrate (20)." V. The appellant's arguments, insofar as they are relevant to the present decision, may be summarised as follows: While it was true that document D4 disclosed a method for manufacturing a substrate comprising a silicon germanium (SiGe) layer, as in claim 1, it was a rather complicated process involving the deposition of a graded SiGe layer (paragraph [0032]) and a buffer SiGe layer (paragraph [0033]). Hence, in the light of the application as a whole, document D2, which disclosed a method for manufacturing a substrate comprising a germanium (Ge) layer, was to be regarded as the closest prior art. Claim 1 differed from document D2 in that: a) the film was SiGe instead of Ge; b) the film had a Ge content of 10% or more by molar ratio; c) the bonding step E took place at a temperature of 100-400°C; and d) the film was mechanically delaminated by applying an external impact. In addition, paragraph [0023] of document D2 implied that hydrogen was implanted from the substrate side, which appeared to be a further difference. Feature a) had the advantage that one could use the superior carrier mobility of the Ge material (cf. paragraph [0002]) while having a SiGe layer allowed preventing lattice defects (cf. paragraph [0003]), which would otherwise arise due to the different lattice constants of Si and Ge. Document D2 remedied the problem of the difference in the lattice constants of Si and Ge by using a two-step CVD process with Ge. The formation of a SiGe layer was not merely an alternative to that of the two-step CVD process with Ge in D2, but provided an easier way for manufacturing a substrate with high carrier mobility and low lattice defects. Following the problem-solution approach, the skilled person would require an explicit teaching in another document that using a SiGe layer instead of two pure Ge layers prevented the formation of lattice defects, and it was not apparent which document from the prior art had this teaching. Without this teaching the skilled person would stick to the two-step CVD process with Ge described in paragraph [0009] of document D2. In the hypothetical case that the skilled person would nevertheless combine the teachings of D2 and D4, he would arrive at a graded SiGe layer on the Si substrate. However, it was an aim of the present invention to circumvent such graded layers, as this required depositing on a Si substrate a number of SiGe layers with slightly increasing Ge concentrations (cf. paragraph [0003]), which in turn increased the manufacturing costs (cf. paragraph [0005]). With the steps of claim 1, the laborious and costly method for producing a graded SiGe layer could be avoided. If the skilled person followed the teaching of D2 and D4, he would arrive at a different method to that of claim 1. Similarly, combining the disclosures of D2 and D1 would not lead to the claimed method. The effect of feature b) was explained in paragraph [0033] of the application as follows: "In order to suppress the generation of dislocations near the interface between the SiGe epitaxial film 11 and the Si substrate 10 at a low level, the composition of the SiGe epitaxial film is preferably set such that the Ge content is 10% or more by molar ratio". Thus, the technical effect of feature b) was to suppress the generation of dislocations and thereby increase productivity. The skilled person had no information to use a Ge content of above 10% in order to suppress the generation of dislocations, and any such presumption would be based on hindsight taking into account the teaching of the present application. The skilled person would equivalently work in the regime of 0-10% and 10-100% Ge. From D2, there was no teaching that it is preferable to work in the upper regime. D4 disclosed a graded SiGe layer which was different to that defined in claim 1. Feature c) defined that bonding took place at a temperature of 100-400°C. Below this range the bonding strength might be insufficient, and above this range minute cavities were formed in the hydrogen ion implanted interface. Accordingly, the range defined in claim 1 allowed a sufficiently high bonding strength while preventing minute cavities in the hydrogen ion implanted interface, which would roughen the surface of the Ge thin film after delamination  D2 merely described bonding at ambient temperature. Document D9 had two relevant teachings: the bonding should be carried out using a plasma, and the temperature should be below 300°C in the layer transfer process, i.e. during the delamination step. The temperature regime for bonding was not specified. Concerning feature d), when delaminating was performed by thermal treatment, especially in case of bonding a silicon substrate and another material substrate, the difference of thermal expansion coefficient tended to damage the substrate and reduce production yield. The effect of feature d) was to avoid this. Document D9 appeared to teach using mechanical cleaving. The effect of features a)-d) together was therefore to cooperatively help in increasing the productivity during semiconductor substrate manufacturing. VI. With the summons to oral proceedings, a communication under Article 15(1) RPBA was sent setting out the provisional position of the Board. The Board expressed the view that document D2 was a reasonable starting point for discussing inventive step, and that features a)-d) identified by the appellant represented the distinguishing features of claim 1 over the closest prior art. The provisional conclusion of the Board was that claim 1 did not involve an inventive step within the meaning of Article 56 EPC 1973.