The transfer of the European patent application no. 00960157.6 from Computer Associates Think, Inc. (legal predecessor of the current applicant) to Google Inc. (current applicant) was requested with letter dated 22 August 2012. The registration of the transfer took effect on 23 August 2012, as confirmed by the communication of the EPO dated 21 September 2012. In the following no distinction is made between the current applicant/appellant and its predecessor. II. The applicant (appellant) appealed against the decision of the Examining Division refusing the European patent application no. 00960157.6. III. In the contested decision, the Examining Division came, inter alia, to the conclusion that claim 1 of the main request, filed by telefax on 7 October 2008, violated Article 123(2) EPC because, by omitting features of the original claims, it contained subject-matter extending beyond the content of the application as filed. The same objection applied to claim 1 of the auxiliary requests 1 to 3, filed by telefax on 7 October 2008, which omitted the same features as claim 1 of the main request. Claim 1 of the auxiliary request 4, filed by telefax on 16 October 2008, violated Article 123(2) EPC because the claimed combination of features had no basis in the application as originally filed. Furthermore, the Examining Division decided not to admit the auxiliary request 5, filed at the oral proceedings held on 7 November 2008, because it appeared to violate Article 123(2) EPC. IV. According to point 4. of the contested decision, the Examining Division declined to discuss the issues of clarity and inventive step at the oral proceedings, as requested by the applicant, since, due to the violation of Article 123(2) EPC and the "consequent lack of an effective filing date", it was not possible to determine the state of the art and discuss the inventiveness of the requests on file. Nevertheless, under the heading "Obiter dicta" the Examining Division raised some questions concerning the clarity of claim 1 according to the main request then on file (Article 84 EPC) and the inventive step of the corresponding subject-matter under Article 56 EPC in view of the following prior art document: D1:  CHAUDHURI, Surajit; NARASAYYA, Vivek, "AutoAdmin "what-if" index analysis utility", ACM SIGMOD Record, ACM, 1998, pages 367-378. V. With the notice of appeal, the appellant requested that the decision of the Examining Division be set aside in its entirety and a patent be granted on the basis of the main request filed with letter dated 7 October 2008. VI. With the statement of grounds of appeal dated 27 April 2009, the appellant submitted a new main request and seven auxiliary requests. In point 1.5 of the statement of grounds, the appellant requested that the Board also take a decision on the obiter dicta objections under Articles 84 and 56 EPC and grant a patent. In point 9.2 of the statement of grounds, the appellant noted that despite the applicant's request for the Examining Division to raise all grounds of refusal in the decision, the Examining Division had not given any indication as to whether the requirements of Articles 84 and 56 EPC were satisfied by the first to third auxiliary requests considered in the decision (which conformed closely to the second to seventh auxiliary requests on file). In the event that the Board could not reach a favourable decision on any of the requests on file, the appellant requested that the application be remitted to the Examining Division for consideration of the second to seventh auxiliary requests. VII. With letter dated 16 December 2014, the appellant was summoned to oral proceedings scheduled to take place on 29 April 2015. VIII. In a communication dated 6 February 2015 pursuant to Article 15(1) RPBA, the Board made some preliminary observations relating to the appellant's requests and to the objections under Articles 123(2), 84 and 56 EPC raised in the contested decision. IX. In reply to the Board's communication, the appellant made further submissions with letter dated 27 March 2015 addressing in particular the Board's clarity and inventive step objections. X. With letter dated 27 April 2015, the Board was informed that the appellant and its representative would not be present at the oral proceedings. XI. On 29 April 2015 oral proceedings were held as scheduled in the absence of the appellant. At the end of the proceedings, the Chairman pronounced the Board's decision. XII. Claim 1 according to the main request reads as follows: "A computer-implemented method for viewing changes to an original optimization plan for a query to a database (212), the database (212) having an original table (308) with data stored therein, and the query including a reference to the original table (308), characterised by the method comprising: defining (402) a virtual table (312) that is a copy of the original table (308) but which excludes data stored in the rows of the original table (308), wherein defining (402) a virtual table (312) includes copying the original table statistics to the virtual table (312), wherein the original table statistics include column statistics, histograms and segment storage; defining (404) a virtual index, the virtual index being an index associated with the virtual table; replacing (406), in the query, the reference to the original table (308) with a reference to the virtual table (312); determining (408) a new optimization plan (324) for the query; replacing (410), in the new optimization plan, a reference to the virtual table (312) with a reference to the original table; and displaying (412) the new optimization plan (324)." Claims 2 and 3 are dependent on claim 1. Claim 4 reads as follows: "A computer program product comprising instructions and data which, when executed by a suitable computer, cause the computer to perform the method of any one of claims 1 to 3." Claim 5 reads as follows: "An apparatus for viewing changes to an original optimization plan for a query to a database (212), the database (212) being suitable for having an original table (308) with data stored therein, and the query being suitable for including a reference to the original table (308), characterised by the apparatus comprising: means for defining a virtual table (312) that is a copy of the original table (308) but which excludes data stored in the rows of the original table (308), wherein the means for defining a virtual table (312) is operable to copy the original table statistics to the virtual table (312), wherein the original table statistics include column statistics, histograms and segment storage; means for defining a virtual index, the virtual index being an index associated with the virtual table; means for replacing, in the query, the reference to the original table (308) with a reference to the virtual table (312); means for determining a new optimization plan (324) for the query; means for replacing, in the new optimization plan, a reference to the virtual table (312) with a reference to the original table; and means for displaying the new optimization plan." Claims 6 and 7 are dependent on claim 5. The first to seventh auxiliary requests are not relevant to the present decision and thus need not be further specified. XIII. The appellant's arguments may be summarized as follows: The main request submitted with the statement of grounds of appeal corresponded to the main request considered by the Examining Division, but with the independent claims having been amended to specify that the original table statistics included column statistics, histograms and segment storage. This amendment removed the objection of intermediate generalisation raised in the contested decision. As to the Examining Division's view that the step of "adding, to the query, a reference to the virtual index" was presented as essential in the present application, it should be observed that most database queries did not contain a reference to an index. For instance page 13, lines 5 to 7 of the present application as published showed a database query that did not contain a reference to an index. Some database queries, however, contained a reference to an index in the form of a hint to the query optimiser (see page 13, lines 18 to 20). However, it was not necessary for a query to contain a reference to an index because database query optimisers were able to intelligently determine whether an index should be used when executing a query and, if so, to determine which indexes should be used. As to the objection under Article 84 EPC raised in the Board's communication that claim 1 did not specify what was done with the "virtual index", the technical problem of providing an alternative method to preview the effects of a particular indexing design would be solved even if the optimiser decided not to use the virtual index because the user would be provided with the valuable information that the new index did not improve the efficiency of the query. As to the question of inventive step, the objective technical problem solved by the present invention was simply to seek an alternative to the arrangement of D1. In fact, the claimed invention would not have been obvious to the skilled person having regard to D1 because: - the claimed invention operated in a fundamentally different way from the arrangement of D1; - D1 taught away from the claimed invention; - the claimed feature of "defining a virtual table ... which excludes data" and "defining a virtual index ... associated with the virtual table" went against normal practice in the field of database management systems. The arrangement of D1 allowed the test of hypothetical index configurations, but required a programmer to perform two difficult tasks: firstly the programmer had to reprogram the database management system to provide an extended "CREATE INDEX" statement (cf. D1, first paragraph of section 3.2.1 on page 370); and, secondly, the programmer had to reprogram the database management system (DBMS) and query optimiser to implement an "HC mode". These modifications would not only be difficult, but also require access to the source code of the DBMS. Rather than using the actual table of the database to be tested (which required the implementation of an "HC mode"), the claimed subject-matter used a copy of the original table (i.e. a "virtual table"). By using a copy, the effect of adding or dropping indexes could be tested without adversely affecting the operation of the original table. Furthermore, as the virtual table did not contain any rows, the creation of an index involved little or no effort because the row data of the table did not need to be sorted. Thus, by using the normal index creation routines of the database management system upon a table that contained no row data, indexes could be created quickly without requiring the "CREATE INDEX" statement to be extended by a "WITH STATISTICS_ONLY" argument. Thus, the claimed subject-matter and D1 operated in a fundamentally different manner, since the former created a "real index" on an empty copy of a table, whereas the latter created a "hypothetical index" on a real table full of data. D1 provided no pointer towards the claimed feature of a virtual table or any other teaching which would have given to the skilled person any incentive or motivation to implement a virtual table. The Examining Division's assertion that the skilled person faced a "one way solution" was not supported by any evidence. Furthermore, the Examining Division was legally incorrect to argue that the claimed solution was obvious because it allegedly did not overcome "any particularly challenging technical implementation problems". In fact, it was completely irrelevant for the purpose of Article 56 EPC to consider whether it was easy to put a non-obvious concept into practice. None of the documents cited by the Examining Division disclosed the claimed feature of defining a virtual table that excluded data stored in the rows of the original table, but which included the statistics of the original table. Given that the virtual table was not obvious, it was indisputable that all of the remaining features of the claim that made use of the virtual table were also not obvious. In summary, the claimed subject-matter provided a non-obvious solution to the technical problem of providing an alternative method to preview the effects of a particular indexing design on the optimisation plan for a query.