The patent applicant's appeal is against the decision of the examining division, posted on 6 October 2011, to refuse European patent application No. 06733040.7. II. The appellant requests that the decision under appeal be set aside and that a patent be granted on the basis of the main request or the first, second, third or fourth auxiliary request, all filed with letter of 20 March 2015, or the fifth auxiliary request, filed by telefax of 16 April 2015. III. By communication of 3 February 2015 the board summoned the appellant to attend oral proceedings on 20 April 2015. As an annex to the communication, the board issued its (negative) preliminary opinion on the allowability of the claims according to the main request and the first auxiliary request. IV. With letter of 20 March 2015, the appellant re-submitted the main request and the first auxiliary request together with further arguments. Additionally, amended claims according to the second, third and fourth auxiliary requests were filed. The appellant asked for notice of whether the board's objections were overcome. V. After being informed that the board intended to maintain its view on the main request and the first auxiliary request, and that the case would possibly be remitted to the department of first instance for further prosecution, the appellant announced that it would not attend the oral proceedings. VI. On 20 April 2015 oral proceedings were held in the appellant's absence. VII. During the appeal proceedings, reference is made to the following documents: D4: US-A-2005/0042109 D5: US-A-2002/0008177 VIII. Independent claim 1 of the main request reads as follows: "Method of manufacturing a hollow fiber-reinforced structural member, in particular for air vehicles, comprising the steps of - providing a mandrel (1), - providing a first circumferential braiding layer (2), formed by braiding fiber (8), around the mandrel, - positioning a flat strengthening body (10) comprising at least one fabric layer having warp fibers and woof fibers at a location on the mandrel against only a part of the surface of the first braiding layer, providing a second braiding layer (3) around the first braiding layer and the strengthening body, - positioning the entirety including the mandrel and the combination of the first braiding layer, the strengthening body and the second braiding layer in a mould which surrounds the entirety completely, - impregnating the combination with resin, by injecting the flat strengthening body and the first braiding layer and the second braiding layer in the mould at elevated pressure and elevated temperature with a resin, - removing the combination as impregnated with a resin from the mould." Additionally, the main request comprises an independent claim 5 directed to a hollow fiber-reinforced structural member manufactured by a method according to one of claims 1-4. IX. The subject-matter of the independent claims according to the first auxiliary request differs from the subject-matter claimed in the main request in that claim 1 comprises the following additional feature: "wherein the strengthening body comprises a stack of fabric layers" X. The wording of independent claims 1 and 4 of the second auxiliary request reads as follows: "1. Method of manufacturing a hollow fiber-reinforced structural member as part of a landing gear of an air vehicle, comprising the steps of - providing a mandrel (1), - providing a first circumferential braiding layer (2 - positioning a flat strengthening body (10) comprising at least one fabric layer having warp fibers and woof fibers at a location on the mandrel against only a part of the surface of the first braiding layer, wherein the strengthening body comprises a stack of fabric layers, - providing a second braiding layer (3) around the first braiding layer and the strengthening body, - positioning the entirety including the mandrel and the combination of the first braiding layer, the strengthening body and the second braiding layer in a mould which surrounds the entirety completely, - impregnating the combination with resin, by injecting the flat strengthening body and the first braiding layer and the second braiding layer in the mould at elevated pressure and elevated temperature with a resin, - removing the combination as impregnated with a resin from the mould." "4. Hollow fiber-reinforced structural member as part of a landing gear of an air vehicle, manufactured by a method according to one of the claims 1-3." XI. The appellant's arguments regarding the main request and the first auxiliary request can be summarised as follows: Regarding the main request the appellant submitted that in the closest prior art document D4 the strengthening fabric was interwoven within the braiding layer. Thus, document D4 did not disclose the method step of positioning the fabric layer having warp fibres and woof fibres against the surface of the first braiding layer after having braided the first braiding layer. In view of this difference, the subject-matter of claim 1 according to the main request was new. Regarding the technical effect achieved by the differing feature, the appellant argued that a more efficient manufacturing process was provided, since positioning the strengthening bodies in between two subsequent braiding layers was less laborious than interweaving. Also, strengthening bodies could be positioned more accurately and with more flexibility since the braiding pattern of the braiding layers did not form a constraint in this respect. The objective problem was thus how to provide a more efficient and accurate way of manufacturing a fibre-reinforced structural member having local reinforcement. Regarding the proposed solution, the appellant put forward that the skilled person, when starting from document D4 and faced with the above technical problem, would not consider positioning the material sheet in between two layers ("interleaving"), since document D4 presented interleaving as being disadvantageous for achieving a homogenous fibre distribution and for providing fibre orientations at 0° (cf. paragraphs [0007], [0008] and [0010] to [0012] as well as claims 1 and 8). Rather, the specific teaching of document D4 was to interweave the strengthening body into the braiding layer in order to overcome these disadvantages and to maintain a high degree of fibre interaction. Also the disclosure of document D5 could not render the claimed subject-matter obvious. There, the manufactured structural member comprised pre-braided layers with bias angle glass fibres, between which layers of graphite material having zero degree fibres were interleaved. The combination of a braided glass fibre layer and a layer of graphite material could be compared to the single braided layer with interwoven zero-degree fibres of document D4. Thus, document D5 did not disclose or hint at the distinguishing feature of positioning a flat strengthening body comprising at least one fabric layer having warp fibres and woof fibres at a location on the mandrel against only a part of the surface of the first braiding layer. The subject-matter of claim 1 according to the main request was based on an inventive step. As to the first auxiliary request, the appellant essentially argued that document D5 did not disclose the use of local strengthening bodies at all, let alone a strengthening body comprising a stack of layers, which implied a pre-produced component made of interconnected layers. Hence, the subject-matter of claim 1 of the first auxiliary request was based on an inventive step.