This is an appeal against the decision, dispatched with reasons on 1 February 2010, to refuse European patent application No. 05 105 665.3 on the basis that the subject-matter of claim 1 according to the main and first to third auxiliary requests did not involve an inventive step, Article 56 EPC, in view of the disclosure of the following document: D1: US 6 601 171 B1 and the common general knowledge of the skilled person. II. With a notice of appeal, received on 31 March 2010, the appellant filed sets of claims according to a main and first to third auxiliary requests which were the same as the claims upon which the appealed decision was based. The appellant requested that the decision be set aside and that a European patent be granted on the basis of the sets of claims according to said main and first to third auxiliary requests and the description and figures on file. The appellant also made a conditional request for oral proceedings. The appeal fee was paid on the same day. III. In a statement of grounds of appeal, received on 11 June 2010, the appellant maintained its requests made in the notice of appeal, but only presented arguments regarding the patentability of the main request, offering to comment on the patentability of the auxiliary requests if the need arose. IV. The application is thus being considered in the following form: Description (all requests): pages 1 to 18, as originally filed. page 2a, received on 14 November 2007. Claims (all received on 31 March 2010 and being the same as the claims upon which the decision was based): Main request: 1 to 10 First auxiliary request: 1 to 9 Second auxiliary request: 1 to 8 Third auxiliary request: 1 to 6. Drawings (all requests): Pages 1/3 to 3/3. V. Claim 1 according to the main request reads as follows: "A method for using a portable security token (102) to facilitate public key certification for a target device (104) in a network, comprising: bringing the portable security token in close physical proximity to the target device, thereby allowing the portable security token to communicate with the target device through a location-limited communication channel; receiving an authenticator for the target device at the portable security token through the location-limited communication channel, wherein the authenticator is a cryptographic token that can be used in a subsequent protocol between the target device and a certification authority (CA) to prove that the cryptographic token originated from the target device; forming a ticket by digitally signing the authenticator with a key previously agreed upon by the portable security token and the CA (106); and sending the ticket to the target device, whereby the target device can subsequently present the ticket to the CA to prove that the target device is authorized to receive a credential from the CA." The text of the claims according to the lower ranking requests is immaterial to this decision.