The present decision relates to the appeal which was filed against the decision of the examining division to refuse European patent application No. 01 943 856.3. The impugned decision was remitted to the post on 12 November 2013. II. In the "Reasons for the decision", the examining division held that the subject-matter of claim 1 according to the main request, then pending, extended beyond the content of the application as filed contrary to the requirements of Article 123(2) EPC. According to the examining division, there was no support in the original disclosure for the feature of the "reinforcing member extending only in a part of the support member devoid of any holder holes". Moreover, the reference to "a plurality of openings" provided in the reinforcing member was considered to constitute an unallowable intermediate generalisation of three specific embodiments of the invention. A further unallowable generalisation resulted from the indication that said openings were filled with "the material" of the support member without incorporating the additional specific indication of the description according to which this material was a plastic material. In two obiter dicta, the examining division further observed that the subject-matter of claim 1 was not clearly defined (Article 84 EPC 1973) and, notwithstanding the unallowable amendments, was not new in view of the prior art (Article 52(1) EPC and Article 54(1),(2) EPC 1973) and in any case, even when relying on a more restrictive interpretation of the claim's wording, not inventive (Article 56 EPC 1973). Particular reference was made to document JP-A-2000-338134 (D2) and its abstract in the English language, and to document WO-A-00/032050 (D3). Similar conclusions as to added subject-matter, clarity, novelty and inventive step applied to the auxiliary request then pending. III. The notice of appeal was filed on 2 January 2014. The appeal fee was paid on the same day. The statement of grounds of appeal was filed on 5 March 2014. IV. With the statement of grounds of appeal, the appellant confirmed its request that the decision under appeal be set aside and further requested that a patent be granted on the basis of sets of claims according to a main request or, in the alternative, on the basis of a first or second auxiliary requests. The claims according to the new requests were enclosed with the statement of grounds. As a further auxiliary request, the appellant requested that oral proceedings be appointed. V. In accordance with the appellant's request, summons to attend oral proceedings were issued on 14 November 2014. VI. In a communication of the Board pursuant to Article 15(1) RPBA issued on 26 November 2014, the appellant was informed of the provisional opinion of the Board with regard to the new filed requests. The attention of the appellant was more particularly drawn to an objection of lack of clarity resulting from the fact that the claimed invention as defined in claim 1 of the main request did not appear to recite all the essential features required to solve the problems concerning production costs resulting from difficulties in drilling certain materials such as invar, ceramics, glass or silicon, warping of the support member assembly and errors in positioning the contact members. This objection derived primarily from the fact that claim 1 of the main request was silent as to the nature of the materials being used for the support member and the reinforcing member, respectively. Moreover, the fact that the reinforcing member extended only in a part of the support member absent of any holder holes but was provided with openings accommodating said holder holes, lead to some confusion as to the relationship actually existing between said reinforcing member and said holder holes. Concerning the issue of novelty, the Board indicated that it was not fully convinced by the analysis relied upon by the examining division with regard to documents D2 and D3. However, in view of the comments made as to clarity, the Board refrained from commenting on the merits of the requests filed with the statement of grounds. VII. By letter of reply dated 11 February 2015, the appellant presented comments addressing the objections of the Board. In its view, the definition of claim 1 of the main request was sufficient to define the invention in a manner that was both clear and concise. It was emphasised that the definition was not intended to cover the embodiments of Figures 3-5 and 7-9 and that the claimed wording was fully consistent with the actual embodiments of the invention as illustrated in Figures 1, 2 and 6. VIII. Oral proceedings before the Board took place on 13 March 2015 in presence of the appellant's representative. IX. During the oral proceedings the appellant filed a revised main request which replaced all previous requests. X. Claim 1 of the present request reads: "1. A support member assembly suitable for use in a contact probe head for contacting an object to be contacted, comprising: a support member (1) formed with a plurality of holder holes (2) for supporting conductive contact members (11) in a mutually parallel relationship, the support member being made of plastic material suitable for forming such holder holes; and a reinforcing member (3), which consists of metallic materials, glass, ceramics or silicon and which is integrally buried within the support member (1), said reinforcing member (3) extending only in a part of the support member (1) devoid of any holder holes (2) and extending to a vicinity of the outer periphery of the support member (1)." Claims 2 and 3 are dependent claims.