The appeal lies from the decision of the Examining Division announced at oral proceedings on 1 December 2010 refusing European patent application No. 07 754 043.3. Claim 1 of the application as originally filed read as follows: "1. A method of determining whether a patient will be responsive to a drug or treatment, the method comprising: obtaining a test spectrum produced by a mass spectrometer from a serum produced from a patient having a disease; processing the test spectrum to determine a relation to a group of class labeled spectra produced from respective serum from other patients having a same or similar clinical stage disease and known to have responded to or not responded to a drug or treatment; and determining, based on the relation of the test spectrum to the group of class labeled spectra, whether the patient will be responsive to the drug or treatment." II. The decision was based on the set of claims of the main request filed with a letter of 28 October 2010, the sets of claims of auxiliary requests 1 and 2 filed with a letter of 29 November 2010, and the set of claims of auxiliary request 3 filed during oral proceedings on 1 December 2010. Claim 1 of auxiliary request 2 read as follows: "1. A method of identifying a non-small cell lung cancer patient as being likely to benefit from treatment with a drug targeting an epidermal growth factor receptor pathway or not likely to benefit from treatment with said drug, comprising the steps of: a) obtaining a mass spectrum from a blood-based sample from the patient (1502); b) performing one or more predefined pre-processing steps on the mass spectrum obtained in step a) (1504); c) obtaining values for integration ranges in said spectrum at positions corresponding to one or more differentiating peaks obtained from a training set of class-labelled spectra produced from samples from other patients having a same or similar clinical stage disease after the pre-processing steps on the mass spectrum in step b) have been performed, wherein an integration range is the interval around the m/z position of the differentiating peak with a width corresponding to the peak width at the m/z position of the differentiating peak; d) using the values obtained in step c) in a classification algorithm using said training set to identify the patient as being either likely or not likely to benefit from the said drug (1506)." In addition to an independent method claim, all requests included an independent apparatus claim (claim 10 for auxiliary request 2). III. In the decision under appeal, the following documents were cited inter alia: D1: WO-A-2005/098445 D2: US-A-2005/164218 IV. According to the decision under appeal: a) The main request did not fulfill the requirements of Article 123(2) EPC. Auxiliary request 1 was not admitted into the proceedings under Rule 137(3) EPC, as no convergence towards meeting the requirements of Article 123(2) EPC was seen. b) Auxiliary request 2 did not fulfill the requirements of Article 56 EPC. D1 was the closest prior art, since it was from the same technical field of data analysis for medical classification using molecular data from patient samples, the purpose of the classification involved the response to drug treatments, and the method thereof involved the similar structural features of using mass spectra from blood-based samples. Claim 1 differed from the disclosure of D1 in part of the definition of the class label, namely that the drug used for treatment of non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) targets an epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) pathway, and was therefore novel. D1 disclosed in particular the prediction of the success of a treatment, before the drug was administered (page 19, paragraph 2 - page 20, paragraph 1 and page 55, paragraph 2). The problem to be solved was the selection of a drug suitable for treating NSCLC. The solution, namely selecting a drug targeting the EGFR pathway, did not involve an inventive step, since, as illustrated by D2, it was well known that this pathway is associated with NSCLC, and drugs targeting it were known from common general knowledge. c) Alternatively, starting from D2, considered as closest prior art by the applicant, the conclusion with respect to inventive step was the same. Claim 1 differed from D2 in the steps of obtaining the data from blood-based samples and using ranges defined by peak widths instead of protein names for the data obtained by mass spectrometry. The problem to be solved was to improve the technique of prediction of drug response. A team working on improving such techniques would include a bioinformatician who, should the data obtained from gene expression data not be enough to obtain a good result, would request other types of data, such as those from mass spectra, as exemplified in D1. Using blood-based samples was well known to the skilled person and would be seen as a straightforward possibility. Independent claim 10 was not inventive for similar reasons. d) Claim 1 of auxiliary request 3, which differed from that of auxiliary request 2 in that it specified a particular set of m/z peak ranges, did not involve an inventive step, since the ranges defined were not associated with an unexpected effect and were among those that would have been chosen by the skilled person. V. The applicant (appellant) lodged an appeal against that decision. With the statement setting out the grounds of appeal, the appellant submitted by letter of 4 May 2011 six sets of claims as main request and auxiliary requests 1 to 5. The main request corresponded to auxiliary request 2 on which the impugned decision was based. Claim 1 of auxiliary request 1 differed from claim 1 of the main request by the addition of "wherein said one or more differentiating peaks comprise one or more m/z ranges selected from the group of m/z ranges consisting of", after which a list of numerical m/z peak ranges was provided. Claim 1 of auxiliary request 2 read as follows: "1. A method of determining whether a non-small cell lung cancer patient will be responsive to a drug or treatment, the method comprising: a) obtaining a test spectrum produced by a mass spectrometer from a blood-based sample produced from the patient; b) processing the test spectrum to determine a relation to a group of class labeled spectra produced from respective blood-based samples from other patients having a same or similar clinical stage disease and known to have responded to or not responded to the drug or treatment; and c) determining, based on the relation of the text spectrum to the group of class labeled spectra, whether the patient will be responsive to the drug or treatment." VI. In a communication sent in preparation of oral proceedings, the Board emphasised inter alia that the wording of the independent claims of the main request and auxiliary request 1 did not resemble that of the corresponding claims of the application as filed, and that a clear basis therefor was not easily derivable from the description as originally filed. It was noted that the same requests appeared to infringe Article 123(2) EPC at least in respect of the features "a drug targeting an epidermal growth factor receptor pathway" and "blood-based sample". Since claim 1 of auxiliary request 2 also comprised the latter feature, the same conclusion appeared to apply. VII. With a letter of 7 January 2015, the appellant filed amended auxiliary requests 3' and 5' to replace auxiliary requests 3 and 5 previously on file. Auxiliary request 4 was withdrawn. Claim 1 of auxiliary request 3' differed from claim 1 of auxiliary request 2 by the deletion of the term "or treatment" throughout the claim, by the replacement of "blood-based sample" with "serum" and by the addition of "wherein the drug is an anti-cancer drug which targets the epidermal growth factor receptor pathway". Claim 1 of auxiliary 5' differed from claim 1 of auxiliary request 2 by the deletion of the term "or treatment" throughout the claim, by the replacement of "blood-based sample" with "serum" and by addition of "wherein the drug is gefitinib or erlotinib". While the main request and auxiliary requests 1 and 2 included a second independent claim directed to an apparatus with further claims dependent thereon, auxiliary requests 3' and 5' did not comprise such claims. VIII. Oral proceedings took place on 20 January 2015 in the absence of the appellant as announced with a letter of 7 January 2015. IX. The appellant's arguments, insofar as relevant to the present decision, can be summarised as follows: All requests - inventive step D2 was the closest prior art. The examining division's choice of D1 did not represent an appropriate starting point for the skilled person. The closest prior art must address the same technical problem as the invention in suit; the number of features common to the invention and the closest prior art must be considered as a secondary assessment criterion. D2 related to a method of predicting cancer patient responses to drugs, while D1 related to methods of diagnosis of lung cancer. Consequently D2, which related to the same objective or purpose as the invention, had to be chosen as the closest prior art. The problem to be solved starting from D2 was the provision of an alternative method of identifying whether NSCLC patients would respond to treatment with a drug targeting an EGFR pathway, such as gefitinib and erlotinib. Starting from the teachings of D2, there were numerous possible ways of improving the method thereof, but there was no teaching or motivation to move away from the RT-PCR-based methods of D2 to the mass spectrometry-based methods of D1, particularly given that neither D1 nor D2 suggested that the claimed combination of features could produce a practical test, nor that m/z peaks from serum samples would be predictive. Consequently, the independent claims of the respective requests involved an inventive step. Auxiliary requests 3' - Article 123(2) EPC Support for the amendment to claim 1 of auxiliary request 3' "wherein the drug is an anti-cancer drug which targets the epidermal growth factor receptor pathway" was to be found in the application as originally filed on page 5, lines 21-22. The skilled person would understand therefrom t X. The appellant requested that the decision under appeal be set aside and that a patent be granted on the basis of the claims of the main request as filed by letter of 4 May 2011 or, in the alternative, on the basis of the claims of auxiliary requests 1 or 2 as filed by letter of 4 May 2011 or auxiliary request 3' or 5' as filed by letter of 7 January 2015.