The appeal is against the decision of the Examining Division refusing European patent application No. 08 759 496. The ground for refusal was stated as follows: "Since the division does not consent to the amendments leading to the main and auxiliary requests (Rule 137(3) EPC) there is no text on file which has been agreed by the applicant (Article 113(2) EPC)." II. In the statement of grounds of appeal the appellant requested that the decision be set aside and that the application be allowed to proceed to grant based on the main or the auxiliary request (both filed with the letter of 8 September 2010), or alternatively that the application be remitted to the Examining Division for further examination. III. The application was originally filed under the PCT with International Application number PCT/EP2008/055765. An International Search Report (ISR) was drawn up according to Article 18 PCT by the EPO acting as the International Searching Authority (ISA) in which no specific prior art documents were cited. Instead,  section C (entitled "DOCUMENTS CONSIDERED TO BE RELEVANT") contained the following statement (said to apply to claims 1-24, i.e. all claims then on file): - "The technical aspects identified in the present application (Art. 15 PCT) are considered part of common general knowledge. Due to their notoriety no documentary evidence is found to be required. For further details see the accompanying Opinion and the reference below. XP002456414". Furthermore, no evidence of the prior art was cited during the examination of the European application or in the contested decision. IV. Claim 1 of the main request reads as follows: "A computer implemented distributed learning system including: a) a central server having provided thereon a management module and a datastore configured to store one or more coursework modules, the management module being interfaceable with the datastore and configured to manage a distribution of one or more of the stored coursework modules to one or more defined remote users, each of the remote users having an associated hand held device, b) a storage module being provided on each handheld device for storing the distributed coursework modules; c) an application locally stored and executable on the handheld device of the remote user, the application being configured to enable an interface of the handheld device with the central server to obtain periodic downloads through a wireless communication network of selected coursework from the central server and to provide such coursework locally to the user, the application enables the handheld device to locally run the coursework modules, d) a tracking module having components provided on each of the central server and the local handheld device, the tracking module component on the local handheld device being configured to track user interaction with the locally stored coursework and to periodically provide that information to the corresponding tracking module component on the server." V. The Examining Division found essentially as follows: The claims of the main request corresponded to the claims filed on entry into the European regional phase with some minor clarifying amendments which introduced no further limiting feature. Thus, the reasoning already given with respect to lack of inventive step of the claims filed upon entry in the European phase remained prima facie unaffected; it could not be expected that a non-limiting "clarification" of subject-matter could overcome an objection under Article 56 EPC. As this assessment still held, consent to the amendments leading to the formulation of the main request was withheld under the provisions of Rule 137(3) EPC. Claim 1 of the auxiliary request also prima facie did not overcome the objection under Article 56 EPC, and hence consent to the introduction of this request was also withheld under the provisions of Rule 137(3) EPC. In relation to inventive step, the reasoning previously given to the applicant could be summarised as follows: claim 1 of the main request was made up of technical and non-technical features, the technical details not going beyond the mention of commonplace and generic computer related components (server, handheld device), and the remaining features relating to a non-technical administrative method for supporting teaching.  There was no technical interaction between the technical and non-technical features, besides the fact that a client server system was used to support the administrative method. The use of a commonplace networked computer system to distribute and display information was regarded as being the closest prior art, claim 1 differing in that the administrative method ran as software on that client server system. The administrative method was not relevant for assessing inventive step (Guidelines, C-IV, 11.5.2), and since the difference between a commonplace (possibly networked) computer and the subject matter of claim 1 could only be found in the administrative method the problem to be solved might be regarded as partially automating the administrative method on a commonplace client server system. The skilled person (a computer programmer) would employ commonplace programming skills and computer knowledge to arrive at the subject-matter of claim 1 which did not therefore involve an inventive step (Article 56 EPC). Concerning the additional feature of the auxiliary request, no technical feature could be unambiguously derived from the prescription, and a programmer could implement such an administrative scheme if instructed to do so. In any event, associating data essentially equivalent to the identity of a user to coursework was to be expected in any classroom or teaching environment, independently of any technical implementation of such a scheme. VI. The appellant argued essentially as follows: Claims substantially corresponding to the claims filed on entry into the European phase had been reinstated in order to address the objections under Article 123(2) EPC which had been raised in the summons. In refusing to examine the main request pursuant to Rule 137(3) EPC the Examining Division had failed to give the Applicant an opportunity to overcome this Article 123(2) EPC objection. Furthermore, in trivializing and incorrectly categorizing the invention as an administrative method for supporting teaching, the Examining Division had completely ignored the applicant's inventive step argument. The features of claim 1 provided a technical solution to a technical problem. When connectivity between the central server and the handheld devices was intermittent, the arrangement allowed a user's interaction with the handheld device to be logged offline and then transmitted to the server when the commu The closest prior art was in fact the prior art detailed in the background of the present application and not a commonplace client server system. The arguments supporting the main request applied equally to the auxiliary request. In addition, by associating a user logon with a specific set of coursework modules it was possible to log the activities of any one user and also to allow two or more users to use the same device.