--- PAGE 1 ---
10

15

20

25

30

MAIN REQUEST
CLAIMS

AT LEAST THE FOLLOWING IS CLAIMED:

1. A computer implemented distributed learning system including:

a.

a central server having provided thereon a management module
and a datastore configured to store one or more coursework
modules, the management module being interfaceable with the
datastore and configured to manage a distribution of one or more
of the stored coursework modules to one or more defined remote
users, each of the remote users having an associated handheld
device,

A storage module being provided on each handheld device for
storing the distributed coursework modules;

An application locally stored and executable on the handheld
device of the remote user, the application being configured to
enable an interface of the handheld device with the central server
to obtain periodic downloads through a wireless communication
network of selected coursework from the central server and to
provide such coursework locally to the user, the application
enables the handheld device to locally run the coursework

modules,

. Atracking module having components provided on each of the

central server and the local handheld device, the tracking module
component on the local handheld device being configured to track
user interaction with the locally stored coursework and to
periodically provide that information to the corresponding tracking
module component on the server.

2. The system of claim 1 further including at least one child server

interposed between the central server and the handheld devices, the

child server being configured to interface between the central server

and the handheld devices, and wherein the at least one child server

optionally includes elements of the tracking module such that a

--- PAGE 2 ---
10

15

20

25

30

handheld device may provide details of coursework reviewed on the

handheld device by a user, such details being storeable locally on the

at least one child server prior to transmission to the central server.

The system of claim 2 wherein the tracking module includes a data

store configured to store details of the user who has conducted the

coursework together with the details of the coursework completed.

The system of claim 1 wherein the wireless communication network is

a mobile telecommunications data network or a local area network.

The system of claim 2 wherein the at least one child server is

configured to communicate with the central server through one of:

a. a satellite data communication channel;

b. an intermittent physical connection.

The system of claim 1 wherein the coursework is provided in a

standardized format, optionally being SCORM compliant.

The system of claim 1 wherein the management module includes one

of:

a. an audit function;

b. functionality that allows a selective transmission of coursework to
a subset of all defined remote users.

The system of claim 1 wherein the communication between the

central server and the remote users is asynchronous.

A method of delivering learning coursework to two or more remote

users, the method including:

a. Providing a central server having provided thereon a management
module and a datastore configured to store one or more
coursework modules, the management module being
interfaceable with the datastore and configured to manage a
distribution of one or more of the stored coursework modules to
one or more defined remote users, each of the remote users
having an associated handheld device,

b. Providing a storage module on each handheld device for storing
the distributed coursework modules;

--- PAGE 3 ---
10

15

20

25

30

10.

11.

12.

c. Providing an application which may be distributed to, locally stored
and executed on the handheld device of the remote user, the
application being configured to enable an interface of the
handheld device with the central server to obtain periodic
downloads through a wireless communication network of selected
coursework from the central server and to provide such
coursework locally to the user,

d. Providing a tracking module having components provided on each
of the central server and the local handheld device, the tracking
module component on the local handheld device being configured
to track user interaction with the locally stored coursework and to
periodically provide that information to the corresponding tracking
module component on the server.

The method of claim 9 further including providing at least one child

server interposed between the central server and the handheld

devices, the child server being configured to interface between the
central server and the handheld devices and wherein on providing the
at least one child server the method optionally includes an installation
of elements of the tracking module on the at least one child server
such that a handheld device may provide details of coursework
reviewed on the handheld device by a user, such details being
storeable locally on the at least one child server prior to transmission
to the central server.

The method of claim 10 wherein the provision of the tracking module

includes a configuration of a data store to store details of the user

who has conducted the coursework together with the details of the
coursework completed.

The method of claim 11 including configuring of each of the server

and handheld devices to communicate with one another via a mobile

telecommunications data network or through a satellite data
communication channel.

--- PAGE 4 ---
10

15

13.

14.

15.

The method of claim 9 including providing a selective transmission of
coursework to a subset of all defined remote users.

A distributed mobile learning system providing a delivery of mobile
learning coursework to a plurality of users each having a wireless
handheld device associated therewith, the system including a
computer software element and a coursework module element, the
computer software element being separated from the coursework
module element and being configured to being executable on a
wireless handheld device, and wherein subsequent to execution of
the wireless device on the wireless device one or more coursework
modules may be distributed to the wireless device from a central
server and stored thereon where they are locally executed on the
handheld device.

The system of claim 14 wherein the computer software element
includes a tracking module configured to monitor the local usage of
the coursework modules and to provide a report of that usage to the
central server.