European patent application EP03702768.7, published as WO-A-03/069 692, is concerned with a redox flow battery and a method of charging of such a battery. II. Documents cited in the International search report: Dl: WO 01/03221 A D2: WO 01/76000 A D3: US 5 804 329 A D4: US 3 795 544 A. III. The European patent application was refused by a decision of the examining division, posted with letter dated 13 October 2010, on the ground of lack of inventive step having regard to any of documents D1 to D3 in combination with document D4. IV. The applicant's (henceforth: the appellant's) notice of appeal was received by letter dated 13 December 2010. The statement of grounds of appeal, dated 3 February 2011, was accompanied inter alia by two new sets of claims as a main request and an auxiliary request. By letter dated 16 March 2015, the appellant filed a new set of claims as the main request, replacing the claims previously filed. V. Claim 1 of the main request reads: "1.    A redox flow battery having: at least one redox fuel cell (1), the cell having: -    an anode (5) in a catholyte compartment (3), -    a cathode (6) in an anolyte compartment (2) and -    an ion selective membrane separator (4) between the compartments, a pair of electrolyte reservoirs, i.e. one (7) for anolyte and the other (8) for catholyte, -    electrolyte supply means (9, 10, 11, 12; 37, 38, 39, 40, 41, 42), i.e. means for circulating anolyte from its reservoir, to an anolyte compartment in the cell and back to its reservoir and like circulating means for catholyte and electrolyte withdrawal and supply connections (21, 22, 23, 24; 35, 36) to its electrolyte reservoirs and/or its electrolyte supply means whereby the battery can be recharged by withdrawing spent electrolyte and replacing it with fresh electrolyte; and wherein each electrolyte reservoir is provided with: - a movable divider (31) for dividing the reservoir into two volumes, and one of the electrolyte withdrawal and supply connections is connected to one end of the reservoir and another electrolyte withdrawal and supply connection is connected to the other of the reservoir, whereby for recharging, the divider traverses along the reservoir with spent electrolyte being withdrawn from in front of the divider via one connector and fresh electrolyte being introduced behind it via another connector, with no communication between the spent and fresh electrolyte OR - a rigid outer vessel (203) and two separate, collapsible tank liners (201, 202), the liners having at least two unions (204) passing through the wall (205) of the rigid outer vessel, and one of the electrolyte withdrawal and supply connections is connected to one end of the reservoir and another electrolyte withdrawal and supply connection is connected to the other of the reservoir, whereby for recharging one of the liners collapses as spent electrolyte is withdrawn from it via one connector and the other is filled via another connector with fresh electrolyte to substantially the internal capacity of the outer vessel." Claims 2 to 22 represent particular embodiments of the subject-matter of claim 1. VI. The appellant argued in writing essentially as follows: The examining division's refusal of the application based on D4 was wrong in that (i) D4 would not render the invention obvious and (ii) document D4 did not belong to the relevant prior art. The appellant drew attention to the distinction between a fuel cell, such as the one disclosed in D4, and a battery. The battery of D4 was neither a "battery" nor was it "regenerative". The redox flow battery of the invention was a regenerative battery. It could be recharged in the manner of a lead acid battery. Indeed that was a major advantage of redox flow batteries. For these reasons was D4 not pertinent. D1 disclosed conventional features of a redox flow battery, in particular, an anode in a catholyte compartment, a cathode in an anolyte compartment, an ion selective membrane separator, a pair of electrolyte reservoirs, and electrolyte supply means. The claimed invention was distinguished over D1 by providing, in each electrolyte reservoir, either a moveable divider or two collapsible tank liners. The object of the invention was to provide a redox flow cell having improved means for charging, by providing means for a swift replacement of spent electrolyte with fresh electrolyte. As a solution the claim proposes features involving either a moveable divider OR two collapsible tank liners, neither of which were found in the relevant prior art. In particular, the moveable divider feature was not disclosed in or suggested by D4. VII. Requests The appellant requested that the decision under appeal be set aside and that a patent be granted on the basis of the claims of the main request, filed with letter dated 16 March 2015, or the auxiliary request, filed with the statement of grounds of appeal.