--- PAGE 1 ---
10

20

25

30

CLAIMS:

1. A redox flow battery having:

at least one redox fuel cell (1), the cell having:

an anode (5) in a catholyte compartment (3),
a cathode (6) in an anolyte compartment (2) and

an ion selective membrane separator (4) between the compartments,

a pair of electrolyte reservoirs, i.e. one (7) for anolyte and the other (8) for

catholyte,

electrolyte supply means (9,10,11,12; 37,38,39,40,41,42), i.e. means for

circulating anolyte from its reservoir, to an anolyte compartment in the cell

and back to its reservoir and like circulating means for catholyte and

electrolyte withdrawal and supply connections (21,22,23,24; 35,36) to its

electrolyte reservoirs and/or its electrolyte supply means whereby the battery

can be recharged by withdrawing spent electrolyte and replacing it with fresh

electrolyte; and

wherein each electrolyte reservoir is provided with:

a movable divider (31) for dividing the reservoir into two volumes, and
one of the electrolyte withdrawal and supply connections is connected to
one end of the reservoir and another electrolyte withdrawal and supply
connection is connected to the other of the reservoir, whereby for
recharging, the divider traverses along the reservoir with spent electrolyte
being withdrawn from in front of the divider via one connector and fresh
electrolyte being introduced behind it via another connector, with no
communication between the spent and fresh electrolyte OR

a rigid outer vessel (203) and two separate, collapsible tank liners
(201.202), the liners having at least two unions (204) passing through the
wall (205) of the rigid outer vessel, and one of the electrolyte withdrawal
and supply connections is connected to one end of the reservoir and
another electrolyte withdrawal and supply connection is connected to the
other of the reservoir, whereby for recharging one of the liners collapses as
spent electrolyte is withdrawn from it via one connector and the other is
filled via another connector with fresh electrolyte to substantially the

internal capacity of the outer vessel.

--- PAGE 2 ---
10

15

20

25

30

2. A redox flow battery as claimed in claim 1, wherein the movable closure or
divider is a diaphragm within the reservoir.

3. A redox flow battery as claimed in claim 1, wherein the movable closure or
divider is a piston within the reservoir.

4. A redox flow battery as claimed in claim 1, claim 2 or claim 3, wherein for each
electrolyte reservoir the electrolyte supply means includes a pair of flow tappings and
a pair of return tappings, one of each pair being provided at one end of the reservoir
for use when the divider or liners is/are at the other end and the other of each pair
being provided at the other end for use when the divider or liners is/are at the one end,
one of the electrolyte withdrawal and supply connections for the reservoir being made
to one of the tappings at one end of the reservoir and the other of the electrolyte
withdrawal and supply connections for the reservoir being made to one of the
tappings at the other end of the reservoir.

5. A redox flow battery as claimed in claim 4, wherein the respective flow tappings
(37) and return tappings (38) are provided with valves (42) and connected together
remote from the reservoir, the valves being provided with control means (43) for
opening the supply means to the end of the reservoir having electrolyte via the valves
at that end and closing the other valves.

6. A redox flow battery as claimed in claim 4 as appendant to claim 2, the movable
divider being a diaphragm, wherein the respective flow tappings and return tappings
are arranged to be closed by the diaphragm when at their end of the reservoir and the
pairs of flow and return tappings are connected together without valves.

7. Aredox flow battery as claimed in claim 1, claim 2 or claim 3, wherein for each
electrolyte reservoir:

e the electrolyte supply means includes a pair of flow tappings and a pair of
return tappings, one of each pair being provided at one end of the reservoir for
use when the divider is at the other end and the other of each pair being
provided at the other end for use when the divider is at the one end and

e the reservoir has two recharging tappings (35,36) provided at opposite ends of
the reservoir, one of the electrolyte withdrawal and supply connections for the
reservoir being made to one of the recharging tappings at one end of the

reservoir and the other of the electrolyte withdrawal and supply connections

--- PAGE 3 ---
5

10

15

20

25

30

for the reservoir being made to one of the recharging tappings at the other end

of the reservoir.

8. A redox flow battery as claimed in any preceding claim, including means for

electrical recharging of the battery.

9. A redox flow battery as claimed in any preceding claim in combination with a

recharging electrolyte connection (151) having a movable selection member (170):

e the selection member having bores (176) arranged to route a particular line of

a complementary refuelling connector, i.e. one of the fresh and spent, anolyte

and catholyte lines, to a respective port of a selected one of corresponding

lines to the connections for withdrawing and replacing electrolyte and

e the selection member being movable in sequence from:

a first quiescent position in which all the ports of the corresponding lines
are closed off by the selection member to,

a first connection position in which respective ones of the bores in the
selection member are aligned with bores in the selection member for
recharging one end of each electrolyte reservoir with fresh electrolyte and
for withdrawing electrolyte from the other end of the reservoirs to,

a second quiescent position in which all the ports of the corresponding
lines are closed off by the selection member to,

a second connection position in which respective ones of the bores in the
selection member are aligned with bores in the selection member for
recharging the other end of each electrolyte reservoir with fresh electrolyte
and for withdrawing electrolyte from the one end of the reservoirs and
back to,

the first quiescent position.

10. The combination as claimed in claim 9, wherein the connection and the selection

member are adapted for rotary movement between the latter’s positions.

11. The combination as claimed in claim 10 or claim 11, wherein the selection

member is adapted to be moved manually.

12. The combination as claimed in claim 10 or claim 11, wherein the selection

member is adapted to be moved as part of a recharging operation.

13. The combination as claimed in claim 12, wherein the electrolyte connection has a

bayonet fitting socket (186) allowing connection at one orientation and disconnection

--- PAGE 4 ---
20

25

30

14

at another orientation after half a turn of a complementary bayonet member, the two
orientations corresponding to the quiescent positions, and the movable selection
member is adapted to be turned in its sequence by the complementary bayonet
member in the connection/disconnection operation.

14. The combination as claimed in any one of claims 10 to 13, in which the selection
member (170) is a circularly cylindrical sleeve, having its bores extending from its
internal bore to its outside at an angle to a radius from its central axis, the bores being
provided in diametrically spaced pairs.

15. The combination as claimed in claim 14, wherein the bores extend at an angle
inclined to the central axis, the connection having its ports arranged in pairs, in each
of which the two ports are spaced longitudinally with respect to the axis, the
arrangement being such that one of the ports in the pairs is in communication with
one of the bores in one connection position of the sleeve and the other of the ports is
communication with the diametrically opposite bore in the other connection position
of the sleeve.

16. The combination as claimed in claim 14 or claim 15, wherein the connection
includes a spring loaded plunger (179) sealingly closing a mouth of the sleeve when
the connection is not in use and displaceable inwards of the sleeve for recharging use
of the connection to expose the bores in the sleeve.

17. The combination as claimed in claim 21, wherein the plunger has a formation
(183) in its outer face for recharging alignment of a complementary connector, the
plunger being irrotationally mounted in the connection.

18. The combination as claimed in any one of claims 14 to 17, in combination with a
complementary recharging connector having a protrusion adapted to be sealingly
received inside the sleeve, the connector having diametrically opposed pairs of fresh
and spent electrolyte ports in its protrusion.

19. The combination as claimed in claim 18, the connector having a spring loaded
cover (158) on the protrusion, the cover sealingly closing the ports in the protrusion
when not in recharging use.

20. The combination as claimed in claim 18 or claim 19, the connector having a
rotatable collar (161) and rotary bayonet fitting tongues (164) fitted to the collar, the
tongues being adapted to fit in the bayonet fitting socket and engage with the port

selection sleeve for rotation thereof.

--- PAGE 5 ---
15

21. The combination as claimed in claim 25, wherein the collar is provided with
ratchet means, permitting its turning in one direction only on the connector.

22. The combination as claimed in claim 22 or claim 23, wherein the collar is
provided with a latch (166) engageable at quarter turns corresponding to the quiescent

and connection positions of the port selection sleeve.