TITLE:
Redox flow battery and method of operating it

TYPE:
World International Patent Organisation

ABSTRACT:
By realizing or installing check valve liquid vein interrupters in each compartment of the battery the phenomenon of slow discharge of the retained volumes of electrolytes during long periods of inactivity of a redox flow battery, with the electrolyte pumps stopped altogether, can be practically eliminated with the effect that the battery is perfectly ready to deliver electric power immediately upon request even after prolonged periods of inactivity. Moreover, the presence of liquid vein interrupters on each compartment in either an outlet or an inlet port substantially preventing by-pass current during a not pumping phase, permits to increase the by pumping the electrolytes through the compartments of a battery stack intermittently, in other words in a pulsed manner, with a certain duty-cycle. Relatively brief pumping phases at relatively high flow rate alternated to phases of not pumping provide for a volumetrically adequate refreshing of the electrolytes present in the battery compartments and contrast the formation of gradients in the bodies of electrolyte.

CLAIMS:
1. A redox flow battery plant comprising a plurality of cells in electrical series defined by a stacked and repetitive arrangement of a conductive intercell separator having a generally bipolar function, a positive electrode, an ion exchange membrane, a negative electrode and another conductive intercell separator, each electrode being confined in a flow compartment, at least a tank storing a positive half-cell electrolyte, at least a tank storing a negative half-cell electrolyte, negative half-cell electrolyte ducting and pumping means for flowing said negative half-cell electrolyte through respective flow compartments of said cells, positive half-cell electrolyte ducting and pumping means for flowing said positive half-cell electrolyte through the respective flow compartments of said cells, and characterized in that at least one of inlet and outlet ports of each of said compartments has a check valve closing the flow orifice in absence of pumping.
2. The redox flow battery system of claim 1, wherein said check valves are in the form of a gravity operated plastic ball lifted off a valve seat by the streaming electrolyte during said pumping phases.
3. The redox flow battery system of claim 1, characterized in that each electrolyte is flown from a charged electrolyte tank to a spent electrolyte tank and vice versa depending on the direction of electric current through the battery while the electrolytes flows through the respective compartments in the same direction.
4. The redox flow battery system of claim 3, characterized in that respective charged electrolyte storage tanks are disposed at an elevated level above the cell stack and respective spent electrolyte tanks are disposed at a level lower than the cell stack.
5. A method of operating a redox flow battery comprising a plurality of cells in electrical series defined by a stacked and repetitive arrangement of a conductive intercell separator having a generally bipolar function, a positive electrode, an ion exchange membrane, a negative electrode and another conductive intercell separator, each electrode being confined in a flow compartment, comprising flowing a positive half-cell electrolyte containing reducible and oxidizable ions of a first redox couple through the compartments containing said positive electrodes from a first tank through said compartments and back to said tank or to a second tank and viceversa depending on the direction of the electric current through the battery, and a negative half-cell electrolyte containing reducible and oxidizable ions of a second redox couple through the compartments containing said negative electrodes from a third tank through said compartments and back to said third tank or to a fourth tank and viceversa depending on the direction of the electric current through the battery, characterized in that said electrolytes are flown through the respective electrode compartments in a pulsed manner with a certain duty cycle, whereby during the pumping phase of each cycle the electrolytes are pumped at a flow rate sufficiently high to determine a turbulent flow within said electrode compartments and during the no pumping phase of each cycle and during idle periods the volumes of electrolytes contained in the electrode compartments are isolated from each other by check valve means.
6. The method of claim 5, wherein the period of the pulsed pumping is between 2 and 10 minutes and the duty cycle varies from 0 during idling to 90%.
7. The method of claim 5, wherein said duty cycle varies in function of the electric current through the battery.
8. The method of claim 5, characterized in that said duty cycle is regulated independently for each electrolyte in function of the redox potential of the electrolyte leaving the battery.
9. The method of claim 5, characterized in that electric current by-pass paths among electrodes through liquid veins of electrolyte are interrupted by said check valves during no pumping phases and idle periods.
10. The method of any one of the preceding claims, wherein the redox flow battery employs a V(III)/V(II) redox couple in the negative half-cell electrolyte and a N(V)/N(IN) redox couple in the positive half-cell electrolyte.