Title: Micromachined field asymmetric ion mobility filter and detection system

Abstract: A micromechanical field asymmetric ion mobility filter (24) for a detection system includes a pair of spaced substrates defining between them a flow path between a sample inlet (16) and an outlet; an ion filter disposed in the path and including a pair of spaced filter electrodes (20, 22), one electrode associated with each substrate; and an electrical controller (30) for applying a bias voltage and an asymmetric periodic voltage across the ion filter electrodes for controlling the paths of ions through the filter.

Type: WIPO

Claims: 
1. A micromechanical field asymmetric ion mobility filter for a detection system comprising: a pair of spaced substrates defining between them a flow path between a sample inlet and an outlet; an ion filter disposed in the path and including a pair of spaced filter electrodes, one electrode associated with each substrate; and an electrical controller for applying a bias voltage and an asymmetric periodic voltage across the ion filter electrodes for controlling the paths of ions through the filter.
2. The micromechanical filter of claim 1 further including a detector, downstream from the ion filter, for detecting ions that exit the filter.
3. The micro mechanical filter of claim 2 in which the detector includes a plurality of segments, the segments separated along the flow path to spatially separate the ions according to their trajectories.
4. The micro mechanical filter of claim 1 further including a confining electrodes, responsive to the electrical controller, for concentrating selected ions as they pass through the filter.
5. The micro mechanical filter of claim 4 in which the confining electrode is silicon.
6. The micro mechanical filter of claim 5 in which the silicon electrode acts as a spacer for spacing said substrate.
7. The micro mechanical filter of claim 1 further including a heater for heating the flow path.
8. The micro mechanical filter of claim 7 in which the heater includes the ion filter electrodes.
9. The micro mechanical filter of claim 8 in which the electrical controller further includes means for selectively applying a current through the filter electrodes to heat the filter electrodes.
10. The micro mechanical filter of claim 1 in which the substrate is glass.
11. The micro mechanical filter of claim 10 in which the glass is Pyrex®.
12 The micro mechanical filter of claim 1 further including an ionization source, upstream from the filter, for ionizing a fluid flow from the sample inlet.
13. The micro mechanical filter of claim 12 in which the ionization source includes a radiation source.
14. The micro mechanical filter of claim 12 in which the ionization source includes an ultraviolet lamp.
15. The micro mechanical filter of claim 12 in which the ionization source includes a corona discharge device.
16. The micro mechanical filter of claim 1 further including a clean air inlet for introducing purified air into the flow path.
17. The micro mechanical filter of claim 1 further including a pump in communication with the flow path, for regulating a fluid flow through the flow path.
18. A field asymmetric ion mobility filter and detection system comprising: a housing having a flow path between a sample inlet and an outlet; an ion filter disposed in the flow path and including a pair of spaced filter electrodes; an electrical controller for applying a bias voltage and an asymmetric periodic voltage across the ion filter electrodes for controlling the path of ions through the filter; and a segmented detector, downstream from the ion filter, its segments separated along the flow path to spatially separate the ions according to their trajectories.
19. The field asymmetric ion mobility filter and detection system of claim 18 further including confining electrodes, responsive to the electrical controller, for concentrating the ions as they pass through the filter.
20. The field asymmetric ion mobility filter and detection system of claim 19 in which the confining electrode is silicon.
21. The field asymmetric ion mobility filter and detection system of claim 20 in which the silicon electrode acts as a spacer for spacing the substrate.
22. The field asymmetric ion mobility filter and detection system of claim 18 further including a heater for heating the flow path.
23. The field asymmetric ion mobility filter and detection system of claim 22 in which the heater includes the ion filter electrodes.
24. The field asymmetric ion mobility filter and detection system of claim 23 in which the electrical controller further includes means for selectively applying current through the filter electrodes to heat the filter electrodes.
25. The field asymmetric ion mobility filter and detection system of claim 18 further including an ionization source upstream from the filter for ionizing fluid flow from the sample inlet.
26. The field asymmetric ion mobility filter and detection system of claim 25 in which the ionization source includes a radioactive source.
27. The field asymmetric ion mobility filter and detection system of claim 25 in which the ionization source includes an ultraviolet lamp.
28. The field asymmetric ion mobility filter and detection system of claim 25 in which the ionization source includes a corona discharge device.
29. The field asymmetric ion mobility filter and detection system of claim 18 further including a clean air inlet for introducing purified air into the flow path.
30. The field asymmetric ion mobility filter and detection system of claim 18 further including a pump in communication with the flow path for regulating a fluid flow through the flow path.
31. A field asymmetric ion mobility filter array comprising: a housing defining at least one flow path between a sample inlet and an outlet; a plurality of ion filters disposed within the housing, each ion filter including a pair spaced filter electrodes; and an electrical controller for applying a bias voltage and an asymmetric periodic voltage across each said pair of ion filter electrodes for controlling the path of ions through each said filter.
32. The filter array of claim 31 in which each said ion filter is associated with one of the flow paths.
33. The filter array of claim 31 further including a detector downstream from each said ion filter for detecting ions that exit each said filter.
34. The filter array of claim 33 in which each said detector includes a plurality of segments, the segments separated along the flow path to spatially separate the ions according to their trajectories.
35. The filter array of claim 31 further including a plurality of confining electrodes, responsive to the electrical controller, for concentrating the ions as they pass through each said filter.
36. The filter array of claim 35 in which each said confining electrode is silicon.
37. The filter array of claim 36 in which the silicon electrode acts as a spacer for spacing the filter electrodes.
38. The filter array of claim 31 further including a heater for heating said at least one flow path.
39. The filter array of claim 38 in which the heater includes each said pair of ion filter electrodes.
40. The filter array of claim 38 in which the electrical controller further includes means for selectively applying a current through each said pair of filter electrodes to heat the filter electrodes.
41. The filter array of claim 31 further including an ionization source upstream from each said filter for ionizing a fluid flow from the sample inlet.
42. The filter array of claim 41 in which the ionization source includes a radioactive source.
43. The filter array of claim 41 in which the ionization source includes an ultraviolet lamp.
44. The filter array of claim 41 in which the ionization source includes a corona discharge device.
45. The filter array of claim 31 further including a clean air inlet for introducing purified air into said at least one flow path.
46. The filter array of claim 31 further including a pump in communication with each said flow path for regulating a fluid flow through each said flow path.
47. An uncompensated field asymmetric ion mobility filter for a detection system comprising: a housing having a flow path between a sample inlet and an outlet; an ion filter disposed in the path and including a pair of spaced filter electrodes; an electrical controller for applying an uncompensated asymmetric periodic voltage across the ion filter for controlling the path of ions through the ion filter; and a selection circuit for selectively adjusting the duty cycle of the periodic voltage to target a selected specie or species of ion to be detected.
48. The ion mobility filter of claim 47 further including a detector downstream from the ion filter for detecting ions that exit the filter.
49. The ion mobility filter of claim 48 in which the detector includes a plurality of segments, the segments separated along the flow path to spatially separate the ions according to their trajectories.
50. The ion mobility filter of claim 48 further including a confining electrode, responsive to the electrical controller, for concentrating the ions as they pass through the filter.
51. The ion mobility filter of claim 50 in which the confining electrode is silicon.
52. The ion mobility filter of claim 51 in which the silicon electrode acts as a spacer for spacing the filter electrodes.
53. The ion mobility filter of claim 47 further including a heater for heating the flow path.
54. The ion mobility filter of claim 51 in which the heater includes the ion filter electrodes.
55. The ion mobility filter of claim 54 in which the electrical controller further includes means for selectively applying a current through the filter electrodes to heat the filter electrodes.
56. The ion mobility filter of claim 47 further including an ionization source upstream, from the filter, for ionizing a fluid flow from sample inlet.
57. The ion mobility filter of claim 56 in which the ionization source includes a radioactive source.
58. The ion mobility filter of claim 56 in which the ionization source includes an ultraviolet lamp.
59. The ion mobility filter of claim 56 in which the ionization source includes a corona discharge device.
60. The ion mobility filter of claim 47 further including a clean air inlet for introducing purified air into the flow path.
61. The ion mobility filter of claim 47 further including a pump in communication with the flow path for regulating a fluid flow through the flow path.
62. A field asymmetric ion mobility filter comprising: a housing having a flow path between a sample inlet and an outlet; an ion filter disposed in the flow path and including a pair of spaced filter electrodes; a pair of confining electrodes transverse to the flow path; and an electrical controller for applying a first bias voltage and an asymmetric periodic voltage across the ion filter electrodes and for applying a second bias voltage across the confining electrodes for controlling the path of ions through the filter.
63. The filter of claim 62 further including a detector downstream from the ion filter for detecting ions that exit the filter.
64. The filter of claim 63 in which the detector includes a plurality of segments, the segments separated along the flow path to spatially separate the ions according to their trajectories.
65. The filter of claim 62 in which the confining electrodes are silicon.
66. The filter of claim 65 in which the silicon electrodes act as a spacer for spacing the filter electrodes.
67. The filter of claim 62 further including a heater for heating the flow path.
68. The filter of claim 67 in which the heater includes the ion filter electrodes.
69. The filter of claim 67 in which the heater includes the confining electrodes.
70. The filter of claim 68 in which the electrical controller further includes means for selectively applying a cunent through the filter electrodes to heat the filter electrodes.
71. The filter of claim 68 in which the electrical controller further includes means for selectively applying a cunent through the confining electrodes to heat the confining electrodes.
72. The filter of claim 62 further including an ionization source upstream from the filter for ionizing fluid flow from the sample inlet.
73. The filter of claim 71 in which the ionization source includes a
radioactive source.
74. The filter of claim 71 in which the ionization source includes an ultraviolet lamp.
75. The filter of claim 71 in which the ionization source includes a corona discharge device.
76. The filter of claim 62 further including a clean air inlet for introducing purified air into the flow path.
77. The filter of claim 62 further including a pump in communication with the flow path for regulating a fluid flow through the flow path.