The appeal is against the decision of the examining division to refuse European patent application No. 03 814 149.5 under Article 97(2) of the European Patent Convention (EPC). II. The application was refused on the grounds that the subject-matter of the independent claims then on file did not involve an inventive step in view of documents D8:    US 5 724 743 A and D24:   WO 01/68326 A2. The features of the dependent claims were held to be known from D8, D24 or D10:   US 2002/0109112 A1. III. The applicant appealed and requested that the decision be set aside. With the statement of grounds of appeal, the appellant filed claims according to a new main request and first to fourth auxiliary requests. It also indicated that the claims of the main request were identical to those underlying the decision under appeal. IV. The board issued a communication pursuant to Article 15(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the Boards of Appeal (RPBA), annexed to a summons to oral proceedings. It indicated the board's provisional opinion that the finding as to lack of inventive step in the decision was correct. V. With a letter of reply dated 15 September 2015, the appellant filed claims of a new main request and first to eighth auxiliary requests. The appellant also indicated that obvious errors had been corrected and the terminology relating to the pre-processor had been adjusted in the claims of the main and first to fourth auxiliary requests. VI. Oral proceedings before the board were held on 15 October 2015. During the oral proceedings, the appellant filed the claims of a ninth auxiliary request. The appellant's final requests were that the decision under appeal be set aside and that the case be remitted to the department of first instance with the order to grant a patent on the basis of the Main Request or the First to Eighth Auxiliary Requests, all filed with the letter of 15 September 2015, or on the basis of the claims of the 9th Auxiliary Request filed during the oral proceedings before the board. At the end of the oral proceedings, the chairman announced the board's decision. VII. Claim 1 of the main request reads as follows: "A wheel alignment system, comprising: at least one imaging module (110, 112), each imaging module comprising: (a) an image sensor (203), for imaging a field of view encompassing a target (118, 120, 122, 124) attached to a wheel of a subject vehicle and generating representative image data; (b) a data communication interface (205), and (c) a processor (221), coupled to receive the image data from the image sensor, for performing at least one of a background subtraction and a gradient calculation on the image data from the image sensor, to form pre-processed image information; the data communication interface (205) being configured for transmitting said pre-processed image information from the processor (221); and a computer (111) coupled to receive the pre-processed image information transmitted from each imaging module and configured to act as a host computer of the wheel alignment system for processing the pre-processed image information to determine wheel alignment parameters of the vehicle." VIII. Claim 1 of the first auxiliary request reads as follows: "A wheel alignment system, comprising: at least one imaging module (110, 112), each imaging module (110, 112) comprising: (a) an image sensor (203), for imaging a field of view encompassing a target (118, 120, 122, 124) attached to a wheel of a subject vehicle and generating representative image data; (b) a data communication interface (205), and (c) a pre-processor, coupled to receive the image data from the image sensor (203), and configured to perform at least one of a background subtraction and a gradient calculation on the image data from the image sensor (203), to form pre-processed image information; the data communication interface (205) being configured for transmitting said pre-processed image information from the pre-processor; and a computer coupled to receive the pre-processed image information transmitted from each imaging module (110, 112) and configured to act as a host computer (111) of the wheel alignment system for processing the pre-processed image information to determine wheel alignment parameters of the vehicle." IX. Claim 1 of the second and third auxiliary requests correspond to claim 1 of the first auxiliary request, with feature (c) reading "a pre-processor, coupled to receive the image data from the image sensor (203), and configured to perform at least a gradient calculation on the image data from the image sensor (203), to form pre-processed image information;" X. Claim 1 of the fourth auxiliary request corresponds to claim 1 of the second and third auxiliary requests, with the following feature appended at the end: ", wherein the pre-processor is configured to perform a background subtraction, wherein the pre-processor comprises a pipelined image processing circuitry (211), and wherein the pipelined image processing circuitry (211) is configured to perform a background image subtraction, calculate a gradient magnitude for each respect XI. Claim 1 of the fifth auxiliary request corresponds to claim 1 of the main request, with the last feature reading as follows: "a computer (111) coupled to receive the pre-processed image information transmitted from each imaging module, to determine the position of the target in space based on the received pre-processed image information, and configured to act as a host computer of the wheel alignment system for processing the pre-processed image information to determine wheel alignment parameters of the vehicle based on the determined position of the target." XII. Claim 1 of the sixth auxiliary request corresponds to claim 1 of the fifth auxiliary request, with the function of the processor in feature (c) reading "for performing at least a gradient calculation on the image data from the image sensor, to form pre-processed image information;". XIII. Claim 1 of the seventh auxiliary request corresponds to claim 1 of the fifth auxiliary request, with the following feature appended at the end: ", wherein the imaging module is configured to do only the background subtraction and the gradient calculation, and wherein the computer (111) is configured to perform remaining computations." XIV. Claim 1 of the eighth auxiliary request corresponds to claim 1 of the sixth auxiliary request, with the following feature appended at the end: ", wherein the imaging module is configured to do only a background subtraction and the gradient calculation, and wherein the computer (111) is configured to perform remaining computations." XV. Claim 1 of the ninth auxiliary request reads as follows: "A wheel alignment system, comprising: at least one imaging module (110, 112), each imaging module (110, 112) comprising: (a) an image sensor (203), for imaging a field of view encompassing a target (118, 120, 122, 124) attached to a wheel of a subject vehicle and generating representative image data; (b) a data communication interface (205), and (c) a pre-processor, coupled to receive the image data from the image sensor (203), and configured to perform at least a gradient calculation on the image data from the image sensor (203), to form pre-processed image information; (d) a control (209) coupled to the image sensor (203), the pre-processor and the data communication interface (205) for controlling operations of the imaging module (110, 112) (e) an illumination source coupled for selective activation by the control (209), for illuminating the target the data communication interface (205) being configured for transmitting said pre-processed image information from the pre-processor; and a computer coupled to receive the pre-processed image information transmitted from each imaging module (110, 112), and configured to act as a host computer (111) of the wheel alignment system for processing the pre-processed image information to determine wheel alignment parameters of the vehicle, wherein the pre-processor is configured to perform a background subtraction, the control (209) selectively activates the image sensor (203) to generate data representing a background image without illumination by the source and to generate data representing a foreground image of the field of view illuminated by the source; and the pre-processor performs the background subtraction by subtracting the data representing the background image without illumination from the data representing the illuminated foreground image wherein the pre-processor comprises a pipelined image processing circuitry (211), and wherein the pipelined image processing circuitry (211) is configured to perform the background image subtraction, calculate a gradient magnitude for each respective pixel of data from a result of the background image subtraction to produce gradient information, and perform run length encoding on the gradient information to form compressed pre-processed image information for transmission to the host computer (111)." XVI. The reasons for the decision under appeal may be summarised as follows: D24 could be considered as the closest prior art. It disclosed a general placement and alignment system. The subject-matter of claim 1 differed therefrom in that it specified a wheel alignment system in which the target was attached to a wheel of a subject vehicle. The objective problem could be regarded as to find an alternative application of the alignment system of D24. Wheel alignment systems were generally known. In particular, D8 disclosed a wheel alignment system in which the target was attached to a wheel of a subject vehicle. Claim 1 failed to define any feature specific to wheel alignment which went beyond the mere claiming of a wheel alignment system and attaching a target to a wheel of a subject vehicle. Alternatively, D8 could be considered as the closest prior art. In the wheel alignment system of D8, the cameras were connected directly to the host computer by an analogue connection. The wheel alignment system of claim 1 differed from the teaching of D8 in that it used an intelligent camera with image processing capabilities in the imaging module, which allowed the transmission of pre-processed image data (typically in digital form) to the host computer. This had the advantage and solved the objective problem of increasing the versatility, processing speed and robustness of the wheel alignment system. D24 disclosed that it was desirable to provide a smart camera capable of carrying out a video monitoring function together with on-board digital signal processing tasks, in particular image pre-processing tasks. Only pre-processed digital images were transmitted to the host computer. The smart camera of D24 provided the advantages for which the person skilled in the art was looking. Thus a person skilled in the art would have had a clear incentive to incorporate the teaching of D24 into the wheel alignment system of D8. As a consequence, the subject-matter of claim 1 lacked an inventive step within the meaning of Article 56 EPC. XVII. The appellant's arguments may be summarised as follows: The application described the two most common image processing techniques in the context of wheel alignment systems. A first approach utilised a dedicated video processing board adapted to process the image data. The processed result was then input to the host computer. Such video processing boards often required the use of complex, expensive processors to perform all of the necessary calculations required for the image algorithms. The alternative approach involved the streaming of image data from the cameras to the host computer, which performed all of the processing of the image data. This imposed a substantial burden on the host computer. D8 related to the alternative approach. Moreover, it did not use background subtraction or gradient calculation. D24 concerned a smart camera only. It did not disclose the specific background subtraction of the present application or the gradient calculation. Hence, no combination of D8 and D24 would result in a wheel alignment system as specified in claim 1 of the main request. The same was true for combinations of documents including D10. In the technical field of wheel alignment systems, the first and alternative approaches mentioned above were the only ones which a person skilled in the art would have considered. The smart cameras used in the first approach were powerful (see D24, page 12, line 22 to page 13, line 24) and expensive, and hence a person skilled in the art would have fully used their capabilities. With such a smart camera, only specific extracted feature information instead of image data was transmitted to the host computer, as disclosed on page 13, line 15 or in D10, paragraph 19. Thus, the host computer did not require image processing capabilities, as described on page 15, lines 4 to 11 of D24. In the alternative approach, and in particular in D8, image pre-processing at the camera would not have been envisaged because there was no need for it. Image processing software for host computers was readily available. In practice, the person skilled in the art might have noticed that the camera output was overwhelming the host computer in the system of D8. But there were many possible solutions to this problem within the framework of the alternative approach, such as using a faster computer or better adapted cameras, reducing the image capturing rate, etc. The essence of the invention was the distribution of the image processing functionality between the pre-processor at the camera and the host computer in the context of wheel alignment systems. This surprisingly combined the advantages of both above approaches: a simple, cheap pre-processor was sufficient to achieve the reduction in data rate which allowed the use of cameras, connection cables and host computers typically used for wheel alignment systems. Thus, starting from D8, the objective technical problem was "how to provide an enhanced wheel alignment system in which image data processing can be performed in a manner that requires at most a minimal amount of specialized processing hardware". This idea of an intermediate approach was not disclosed or hinted at in any of the cited documents, which all related to either the first or the alternative approach. Nor was it a question of system design. The argument that a person skilled in the art would have ignored the first or the alternative approach and chosen the specific intermediate approach reflected in the present application was based on an ex-post facto analysis. The person skilled in the art could have chosen such an approach but would not have done so because the mindset of the person skilled in the art of wheel alignment systems was to use either of the two known approaches. These arguments related to all the requests. Moreover, claim 1 of the fourth auxiliary request defined this intermediate approach more precisely by specifying the features of the pre-processor. The subject-matter of this claim produced unexpected effects in that background subtraction led to an even intensity distribution in the image except at the targets. Gradient calculation on such an image allowed heavy compression using run length encoding. The combination of these measures synergistically reduced the data amount to be transmitted. The ninth auxiliary request specified features of the wheel alignment system to better define the technical context in which the intermediate approach took place. The appellant's intermediate approach was specific to wheel alignment systems, not a general distribution of the image processing functionality between a pre-processor at a camera and a host computer. It had been filed when it had become clear to the appellant that the board took into consideration the common general knowledge of a person skilled in the art of image processing in general, as opposed to the image processing techniques used in the specific context of wheel alignment systems. The appellant would not object to a remittal to the department of first instance on the basis of the claims of the ninth auxiliary request.