--- PAGE 1 ---
10

15

20

25

1 Muller-Boré

Application No.: 03 814 149.5-2218
Appeal No.: T2123/10-3.5.04

Applicant: Snap-On Technologies, Inc.
"Gradient Calculating Camera Board"
Our Ref.: S10146EU - ro/msc

Main Request
Claims:

1. A wheel alignment system, comprising:
at least one imaging module (110, 112), each imaging module comprising:
(a) animage sensor (203), for imaging a field of view encom-
passing a target (118, 120, 122, 124) attached to a wheel of a
subject vehicle and generating representative image data;
(b) | adata communication interface (205), and
(c) | aprocessor (221), coupled to receive the image data from the
image sensor, for performing at least one of a background
subtraction and a gradient calculation on the image data from
the image sensor, to form pre-processed image information;
the data communication interface (205) being configured for transmitting said
pre-processed image information from the processor (221); and
a computer (111) coupled to receive the pre-processed image information
transmitted from each imaging module and configured to act as a host computer of
the wheel alignment system for processing the pre-processed image information to

determine wheel alignment parameters of the vehicle.

2. The wheel alignment system of claim 1, wherein the processor
comprises

pipelined image processing circuitry.

3. The wheel alignment system of claim 2, wherein the pipelined im-
age
processing circuitry comprises a field programmable gate array (FPGA), which
can be

--- PAGE 2 ---
10

15

20

25

30

2 Muller-Boré

dynamically reconfigured to meet alternate image processing requirements.

4. The wheel alignment system of claim 2, wherein the pipelined
image
processing circuitry performs a background image subtraction, calculates a gradi-
ent
magnitude for each respective pixel of data from a result of the background image
subtraction
to produce gradient information, and performs run length encoding on the gradient
information to form compressed pre-processed image information for transmission to
the host
computer (111).

5. The wheel alignment system of claim 4, wherein the pipelined
image
processing circuitry also performs at least one threshold operation to remove data

below a threshold value.

6. The wheel alignment system of claim 5, -wherein each imaging module
further
comprises a contro! (209) coupled to the image sensor (203), the processor (221):
and the data
communication interface (205) for controlling operations of the module.

7. The wheel alignment system of claim 6, wherein each imaging module _
further
comprises an illumination source coupled for selective activation by the con-
trol, for

illuminating the target.
8. The wheel alignment system of claim 7, wherein the illumination
source

comprises a strobe comprising a light emitting diode (LED) array.

9. The wheel alignment system of claim 7, wherein:

--- PAGE 3 ---
10

15

20

25

3 Miller-Boré

the control selectively activates the image sensor to generate data repre-
senting a background image without illumination by the source and to generate data
representing a foreground image of the field of view illuminated by the source; and

the processor performs the background subtraction by subtracting the
data representing the background image without illumination from the data repre-
senting the illuminated foreground image.

10. The wheel alignment system of claim 1, wherein the processor per-
forms the

background subtraction on the image data from the image sensor.

11. | The wheel alignment system of claim 1, wherein the processor per-
forms both
a background subtraction on the image data from the image sensor and a gradient
calculation
based on a result of the background subtraction, to form the pre-processed image in-

formation.

12. |The wheel alignment system of claim 11, wherein the processor com-
presses
the pre-processed image information, and the data communication interface trans-
mits the pre-

processed image information to the host computer in compressed form.

13. |The wheel alignment system of claim 1, wherein:
the processor compresses the pre-processed image information; and the data
communication interface transmits the pre-processed image information to the

computer in compressed form.

--- PAGE 4 ---
10

15

20

25

30

4 Miller-Boré

14. | The wheel alignment system of claim 11, wherein:

each imaging module further comprises a strobe for selectively illuminating
the at least one optical target when mounted on a vehicle;

the image sensor selectively images the field of view encompassing the at
least one target and generates data representing a background image without illu-
mination from the strobe and generates data representing a foreground image con-
taining the at least one target illuminated by the strobe; and

the processor performs a background subtraction by subtracting the data rep-
resenting the background image without illumination from the data representing the

illuminated foreground image.

15. |Amethod of image processing, for an alignment measurement of one
or more
wheels of a vehicle, comprising steps of:

capturing an image of a field of view encompassing one or more targets at-
tached to the one or more wheels of the vehicle;

generating image data representing the captured image;

performing at least one of a background subtraction and a gradient calcula-
tion on the image data from the image sensor to form pre-processed image informa-
tion;

transmitting the pre-processed image information to a host computer; and

further processing the pre-processed image information in the host com-

puter, to determine wheel alignment parameters of the vehicle.

16. |The method of claim 15, wherein the step of transmitting the pre-
processed
image information to a host computer comprises:

compressing the pre-processed image information; and

transmitting the compressed information to the host proc-

essor.

17. The method of claim 15,

wherein:

--- PAGE 5 ---
10

15

20

25

30

the step of capturing the image com-
prises:
capturing a background image without illumination;
illuminating the field of view encompassing the one or more targets;
and
forming a foreground image of the illuminated field of view;
the step of generating image data comprises:
generating image data representing the background image with-
out illumination; and
generating image data representing the illuminated foreground image
of the one or more targets; and
the step of performing comprises subtracting the data representing
the background image without illumination from the data representing the illuminated

foreground image of the target subject.

18. |The method of claim 17, wherein the step of performing further
comprises
calculating gradient information responsive to a result of the subtracting step.

19. |The method of claim 18, wherein the step of transmitting the pre-
processed
image information to a host computer comprises:

compressing the gradient information; and

transmitting the compressed information to the host processor.

20. The method of claim 19, wherein further processing the pre-processed
image
information in the host computer further comprises:

receiving the compressed information in the host computer;

decompressing the received information to obtain the gradient information;

processing the gradient information to derive positional data regarding posi-
tion of the one or more visible targets: and

processing the positional data, in the host computer, to determine wheel
alignment parameters of the vehicle.