--- PAGE 1 ---
10

15

20

25

Enclosure - Main Request
1/2

Main Request
CLAIMS

1. Catalyst containing active elements including copper deposited on an
alumina, said alumina containing at least 0.03 g of titanium, expressed in metal

form, per kg of alumina.

2. Catalyst according to Claim 1, characterized in that the alumina

contains at most 15 g of titanium, expressed in metal form, per kg of alumina.

3. Catalyst according to either one of Claims 1 and 2, characterized in
that the alumina contains at least 0.05 g of titanium, expressed in metal form, per

kg of alumina.

4. Catalyst according to any one of Claims 1 to 3, characterized in that
the alumina contains at most 5 g of titanium, expressed in metal form, per kg of

alumina.

5. | Catalyst according to any one of Claims 1 to 4, characterized in that it
contains, in addition to copper, at least one other active element selected from
alkali metals, alkaline-earth metals, rare earth metals and metals of the group
consisting of ruthenium, rhodium, palladium, osmium, iridium, platinum and

gold.

6. Catalyst according to any one of Claims | to 5, characterized in that
the active element or elements other than copper are selected from the alkali

metals, alkaline-earth metals and rare earth metals.

7. Catalyst according to any one of Claims | to 6, characterized in that

the active elements are copper, magnesium and at least one alkali metal.

8. Use of an alumina containing at least 0.03 g of titanium, expressed in
metal form, per kg of alumina, as support for catalyst containing active elements

including copper.

9. Method involving a gas phase reaction, characterized in that the gas

phase reaction is catalysed by a catalyst according to any one of Claims | to 7.

--- PAGE 2 ---
Enclosure - Main Request
2/2

10. Method according to Claim 9, characterized in that the gas phase

reaction is an oxidation reaction of a hydrocarbon.

11. Method according to either one of Claims 9 and 10, characterized in
that the gas phase reaction is an oxychlorination reaction of a hydrocarbon

containing | to 4 carbon atoms.

12. Method according to any one of Claims 9 to 11, characterized in that
the gas phase reaction is the oxychlorination reaction of ethylene to 1,2-

dichloroethane.