The appeal lies against the decision of the examining division dated 23 March 2011, for reasons referring to the communication dated 25 October 2010, to refuse the application for lack of clarity and support, Article 84 EPC, and for lack of an inventive step, Article 56 EPC, over the documents D1:  Dhem J.-F., "Efficient Modular Reduction Algorithm in Fq[x] and its Application to 'Left to Right' Mo­du­lar Multiplication in F2[x]", Proc. of CHES 2003, LNCS 2779, Springer-Verlag, pages 203-213, D2:  WO 2004/0111831 A2, D3:  US 2003/044014 A1, and D4:  US 2003/079139 A1 II. A notice of appeal was received on 1 June 2011, the appeal fee being paid on the same day. A statement of grounds of appeal was received on 21 June 2011. The appellant requested that the decision under appeal be set aside and a patent be granted on the basis of claims according to a main or auxiliary request as filed with the grounds of appeal, apparently in combi­nation with the application documents on file, namely drawings pages 1-2 and description pages 1-5, 8-11 as originally filed and description pages 6 and 7 as filed with letter of 8 April 2009. III. With a summons to oral proceedings, the board informed the appellant about its preliminary opinion according to which the pending claims lacked clarity, Article 84 EPC 1973, and an inventive step, Article 56 EPC 1973 over D1-D4. In particular, the board questioned whether and to what extent the claimed subject matter could be said to be "cryptographically secure" and whether the claims established that the alleged technical effect of in­creased efficiency could be ascribed to the claimed subject matter due to its reliance on a "word-size" parameter w. IV. In response to the summons, with letter dated 4 March 2015, the appellant filed amended claims 1-9 according to a main and a first auxiliary request and claims 1-5 according to a second auxiliary request and requested the grant of a patent based on one of these sets of claims. With the same letter the appellant informed the board that the appellant's re­presentative would not attend the oral proceedings. The appellant further filed a document contai­ning technical background on DSS (FIPS PUB 186-2), which is not relevant for the purpose of this decision, and a declaration by one of the in­ven­tors, Vincent Dupaquis, relating to how one skilled in the art would have read the description. V. Claim 1 according to the main request reads as follows: "A computer hardware-implemented cryptographic method comprising a modular polynomial reduction operation in a binary finite field, the modular polynomial reduction operation comprising: precomputing and storing in memory a polynomial constant u(x) representing a bit-scaled reciprocal of a multi-word polynomial modulus m(x) having a length defined by a number of words; estimating an approximate polynomial quotient q(x) for a polynomial p(x) to be reduced modulo m(x), wherein said estimating is executed upon p(x) in a computation unit by a polynomial multiplication over the binary finite field by said constant u(x); characterized by: generating in a random number generator a random polynomial error value E(x) having a degree that falls within a predetermined range and applying said polynomial error value to said approximate polynomial quotient to obtain a randomized polynomial quotient q'(x) = q(x) + E(x); and calculating a polynomial remainder r'(x) = p(x) + q'(x)?m(x) in said computation unit by performing word-size shifts, said remainder r'(x) being of higher degree than said modulus m(x) but congruent to p(x) modulo m(x) and where the degree of p(x) is less than or equal to 2k+w, w being a word size in bits of the computer hardware and k being the length in bit number of the words representing the modulus m(x)." Claim 5 of the main request reads as follows: "A computational hardware for executing a cryptographic program comprising a polynomial modular reduction operation over a binary finite field, the hardware comprising: a computation unit adapted to perform word-wide finite-field multiply and accumulate steps on polynomial operands retrieved from a memory and polynomial coefficient intermediate results from a set of working registers; a random number generator for generating a random polynomial error value E(x) having a degree that falls within a predetermined range; an operations sequencer comprising logic circuitry for controlling the computation unit and random number generator in accord with program instructions so as to carry out the method of one of claims 1 to 4." The wording of the claims according to the dependent claims is immaterial for this decision. VI. Oral proceedings were held in absence of the appellant on the scheduled day. At the end of oral proceedings, the chairman announced the decision of the board.