Title: System for production of sterile-packed rice

Abstract: A sterile-packed rice product is produced in a system including a rice filling device that fills an individual tray with a predetermined quantity of washed and soaked rice; a sterilization chamber that substantially air-tightly contains one or more of arrays of the trays with rice for sterilizing the rice with high-temperature pressurized steam introduced into the chamber; a water filling device that fills the trays with the sterilized rice with a predetermined quantity of water necessary for steam rice-cooking; a steam rice cooker that cooks the rice with a steam; and a sealing device that lids air-tightly that trays with the cooked rice. A clean booth surrounds a conveyor conveying the trays from the steam rice cooker to said sealing device, thus providing a predetermined cleanliness over an area covering at least a conveying path of the trays from an exit of the steam rice cooker to the sealing device. An intermittent conveyor is preferably used to intermittently conveys the arrays of the trays throughout the rice filling device and the sterilization chamber. Preferably, high temperature pressurized steam is intermittently flushed into the sterilization chamber for sterilization of the packed rice.

Type: 
US Patent

Claims: 
What is claimed is:
1. A system for production of sterile-packed rice comprising:
a. a rice filling device that fills an individual tray with a predetermined quantity of washed and soaked rice;
b. a sterilization chamber that substantially air-tightly contains one or more of arrays of said trays with rice for sterilizing the rice with high-temperature pressurized steam introduced into said chamber;
c. a water filling device that fills said trays with the sterilized rice with a predetermined quantity of water necessary for steam rice-cooking;
d. a steam rice cooker that cooks the rice with a steam;
e. a sealing device that applies air-tight lids to said trays with the cooked rice;
f. a conveyor that conveys said trays from said steam rice cooker to said sealing device; and
g. a clean booth that surrounds said conveyor to provide a predetermined cleanliness over an area covering at least a conveying path of said trays from an exit of said steam rice cooker to said sealing device.
2. A system as claimed in claim 1 which further comprises an intermittent conveyor that intermittently conveys the arrays of said trays throughout said rice filling device and said sterilization chamber.
3. A system as claimed in claim 2 wherein a predetermined number of said trays come to a standstill each time between preceding and succeeding conveyance for a predetermined period, during which rice filling operation by said rice filling device and/or sterilization operation in said sterilization chamber can be effected.
4. A system as defined in claim 1 wherein high temperature pressurized steam is intermittently flushed into said sterilization chamber for sterilization of said packed rice.
5. A system as defined in claim 4 wherein each tray of rice is subjected to a flush of high temperature pressurized steam over a period of 5 to 10 seconds that is repeated 6 to 8 times.