The appeal is against the decision of the examining division, the reasons for which were dispatched on 12 January 2010, to refuse European patent application No. 02 788 365.1 for lack of inventive step, Article 56 EPC, of the main and first and second auxiliary requests over commonly known technical means, such as a PC, a mobile phone, the GSM network and the Internet. II. A notice of appeal was received on 11 March 2010, the appeal fee being paid on the same day. The appellant requested the cancellation of the decision in its entirety and that a patent be granted. The appellant also made an auxiliary request for oral proceedings. III. With a statement of grounds of appeal, received on 19 May 2010, the appellant submitted a main and first to third auxiliary requests, the claims of the main and second and third auxiliary requests being the same as those of the main, first and second auxiliary requests, respectively, on which the decision was based. The appellant alleged that the examining division had committed a substantial procedural violation by ignoring the first auxiliary request, which had not been explicitly withdrawn, and requested the reimbursement of the appeal fee. The request for reimbursement was subsequently withdrawn in the oral proceedings before the board. The appellant further deduced a basic line of argumentation from the decision under appeal (see the grounds, page 5, paragraph 3) which it believed to represent a "new assessment approach for assessing inventive step" characterising the "stance being taken by the EPO towards business methods". The appellant criticised this "new assessment approach" as being "imprecise, incorrect, inconsistent, contradictive in itself, and ... not in conformity with the EPC and case law" (see the grounds, page 19, penultimate paragraph) and requested that the board refer a number of questions to the Enlarged Board of Appeal (see point XXI below). IV. A request for accelerated processing of the case was received on 4 December 2013. V. In a communication dated 19 December 2013 the board stated that it was not convinced by the appellant's arguments, particularly as to the urgency of the case. Hence the request for accelerated processing was not allowed. VI. The board issued a summons to oral proceedings, giving in an annex its preliminary opinion that the examining division seemed not to have committed any procedural violations so that reimbursement of the appeal seemed not to be justified, Rule 103 EPC. Although the board did not agree with the appealed decision that the problem solved by the invention was "not a technical problem but a business one", the application seemed not to comply with Article 84 EPC 1973 regarding clarity, and Article 56 EPC 1973 regarding inventive step in view of the following documents introduced by the board: D3:  US 2001/037264 A1 D4:  Wireless Application Forum, "WMLScript Crypto Library"; 5 November 1999; available at https://www2.informatik.hu-berlin.de/~xing/Lib/WAP2000/WAP-161-WMLScriptCrypto-19991105-a.pdf VII. With a letter received on 16 March 2015 the appellant submitted amended claims according to fourth to fourteenth auxiliary requests and further questions to be referred to the Enlarged Board of Appeal; see point XXII below. VIII. Oral proceedings were held on 16 April 2015 during which the appellant withdrew its allegation of a procedural violation and withdrew the request for reimbursement of the appeal fee. The appellant requested that the decision under appeal be set aside and that a patent be granted on the basis of the main request, or one of the auxiliary requests 1-3, all received 19 May 2010, or on the basis of one of the auxiliary requests 4-14, all received 16 March 2015 or in combination with the feature "Operator ... archives signed payment contract" according to step 212 of figure 2c of the application as published. The appellant further requested the referral of questions to the Enlarged Board of Appeal (see letters dated 19 May 2010 and 16 March 2015). IX. Thus the appellant requests that a patent be granted on the basis of the following documents: Claims: main and first to eighth auxiliary requests: 1 to 10, ninth, tenth and eleventh auxiliary requests: 1 to 9, twelfth, thirteenth and fourteenth auxiliary requests: 1 to 7. Description: pages 1 to 3 and 5 to 19, as published, page 2a, received on 5 December 2005 and pages 4A to 4D and 20, received on 16 March 2015. Drawings: Sheets 1/8 to 8/8, as published. X. Claim 1 according to the main request reads as follows: "A method of authorizing a transaction in which transaction information indicative for the transaction is presented from a server to a user at an Internet access device (PC) in a first information set in a first format suitable for presentation on the Internet access device (PC), the method comprising steps performed by the server or a further server: - creating a second information set in a second format suitable for presentation at a mobile terminal (PTD), wherein the second information set is representative of the first information set; - linking the first information set and the second information set; - sending the second information set to a public land mobile network (PLMN) for presentation to the user at the mobile terminal (PTD); - receiving authentication information from the mobile terminal (PTD) through the PLMN; and - requesting a verification of the received authentication information before authorizing the transaction." XI. Claim 1 of the first auxiliary request differs from that of the main request in that the expression "transaction" has been limited to "e-commerce transaction". XII. Claim 1 of the second auxiliary request differs from that of the first auxiliary request in that lines 7 to 18 now read as follows (additions underlined, deletions [deleted: struck through)]: "- creating a second information set in a second format suitable for sending to [deleted: presentation at a] mobile terminal (PTD) and for presenting at a screen of the mobile terminal (PTD), wherein the second information set is representative of the first information set; - linking the first information set and the second information set; sending the second information set to a public land mobile network (PLMN) for presentation of the second information set to the user at the screen of the mobile terminal (PTD); - receiving authentication information from the mobile terminal (PTD) through the PLMN; and - sending a request[deleted: ing] for a verification of the received authentication information before authorizing the e-commerce transaction." XIII. Claim 1 of the third auxiliary request differs from that of the second auxiliary request in that each occurrence of the word "e-commerce" has been deleted. XIV. Claim 1 of the fourth auxiliary request differs from that of the second auxiliary request in now stating that the second information set in the creating step further "includes a limited amount of information about the transaction compared to the first information set" and in that the linking step now sets out the additional feature that "the first information set and the second information set are associated with the transaction". XV. Claim 1 of the fifth auxiliary request differs from that of the second auxiliary request in that the linking step has been deleted and in that the first information set mentioned in the preamble has been restricted by adding the feature that "the first information set comprises a transaction identifier and a name of the merchant of the e-commerce transaction" and in that the second information set mentioned in the creating step has been restricted by adding the feature that "[the second information set] comprises the transaction identifier and the name of the merchant of the e-commerce transaction". XVI. Claim 1 of the sixth, seventh and eighth auxiliary requests differs from that of the second, fourth and fifth auxiliary requests, respectively, in that the request for verification in the last step is now sent "to a separate acquirer or issuer or operator server". XVII. The claims according to the main and the first to eighth auxiliary requests also comprise an independent claim 7 to a server, an independent claim 8 to a computer program product, an independent claim 9 to a network and an independent claim 10 to a system. XVIII. Claim 1 of the ninth, tenth and eleventh auxiliary requests differs from that of sixth, seventh and eighth auxiliary requests, respectively, in that the authentication information received in the penultimate step now "comprises client-side public key infrastructure (PKI) information". The claims according to the ninth, tenth and eleventh auxiliary requests also comprise an independent claim 6 to a server, an independent claim 7 to a computer program product, an independent claim 8 to a network and an independent claim 9 to a system. XIX. Claim 1 of the twelfth and thirteenth auxiliary requests differs from that of the ninth and tenth auxiliary requests, respectively, in the added feature that the linking comprises "sending a wireless application protocol (WAP) push message to the mobile terminal (PTD), wherein the WAP push message comprises a hyperlink to the second information set". The same feature, with editorial amendments, has been added to claim 1 of the fourteenth auxiliary request, which is based on claim 1 of the eleventh auxiliary request. The claims according to the twelfth, thirteen and fourteenth auxiliary requests also comprise an independent claim 4 to a server, an independent claim 5 to a computer program product, an independent claim 6 to a network and an independent claim 7 to a system. XX. At the oral proceedings the appellant further requested the board to consider any of the foregoing requests in c XXI. In the statement of grounds of appeal the appellant requested that the board refer the following questions to the Enlarged Board of Appeal: "1)  Is the new method for assessing inventive step, i.e. to declare an invention to be a business method invention right from the beginning without deeper analysis of the presence of technical features or effects, to identify some technical hardware features on their own and declare them as known as well as their interconnections, interactions and functioning without the necessity to prove this by prior art, to declare all remaining features (i.e. those features that remain after the subtraction of the technical hardware features as identified in the previous step) as ordinary business activities specified by a person void of any technical skills despite the fact that this person is not defined in the EPC or case law and by applying an ex-post-facto-view, and to deny presence of inventive step because of lack of objective technical problem and technical solution as those ordinary business activities can be implemented by the skilled person in the art by routine work without knowing how the skilled person and the person void of any technical skills interact, in conformity with the EPC and case law? 2)   Can an invention be rejected for the reason of lacking inventive step by the new assessment method without any evidence for any prior art and what are the criteria to decide for which technical features no prior art has be proved and for which technical features prior art has to be proved? 3)   Is a person void of any technical skills to be considered in the assessment of the inventive step? 4)   Is a person void of any technical skills completely void of any technical skills? 5)   If the answer to question 4) is in the affirmative, how can this person define business specifications that comprise technical features? 6)   If question 4) is answered not in the affirmative, to which extent has this person technical skills and how are they defined in an objective manner? 7)   How does the person void of any technical skills interact with the person skilled in the art to arrive jointly at the invention?" XXII. In its letter of 16 March 2015 the appellant requested that the board also refer the following additional questions to the Enlarged Board of Appeal: "1)  Is it conceivable that the approaches to determine inventive step for a claim comprising a mixture of technical and non-technical features as set forth by the technical Board of Appeal in decisions T931/95 (Pension Benefit System) and T641/00 (COMVIK) and by the examining division in the present case introducing inter alia "a person void of any technical skills" lead to different results when applied to the same claim? 2)   If the answer to question 1 is yes, which criteria shall be applied to determine which approach is to be followed eventually for a specific case? 3)   Irrespective of the answer to question 1, which measures are to be taken to ensure that the result is the same no matter which approach is applied?"