--- PAGE 1 ---
20

Main Claim Set

. A method of authorizing a transaction in which transaction information in-

dicative for the transaction is presented from a server to a user at an Inter-
net access device (PC) in a first information set in a first format suitable for
presentation on the Internet access device (PC), the method comprising
steps performed by the server or a further server:
creating a second information set in a second format suitable for
presentation at a mobile terminal (PTD), wherein the second infor-
mation set is representative of the first information set;
linking the first information set and the second information set;
sending the second information set to a public land mobile network
(PLMN) for presentation to the user at the mobile terminal (PTD);
receiving authentication information from the mobile terminal (PTD)
through the PLMN; and
requesting a verification of the received authentication information

before authorizing the transaction.

. The method of claim 1, wherein linking the first information set and the

second information set further comprises sending a wireless application

protocol (WAP) push message to the mobile terminal (PTD).

. The method of claim 2, wherein the WAP push message comprises a hy-

perlink to the second information set.

Page 1 of 3

--- PAGE 2 ---
20

. The method of claim 3, wherein the first information set is formatted in hy-

pertext markup language (HTML) and the second information set is format-

ted in wireless markup language (WML).

. The method of claim 4, wherein the second information set is further for-

matted to be signed by a user using a WAP signText script.

. The method of any of the claims 1 to 5, wherein the authentication infor-

mation comprises client-side public key infrastructure (PKI) information.

. Server for authorizing a transaction in which transaction information indica-

tive for the transaction is presented from the server or a further server to a
user at an Internet access device (PC) in a first information set in a first
format suitable for presentation on the Internet access device (PC), the
server comprising:
means operable for creating a second information set in a second for-
mat suitable for presentation at a mobile terminal (PTD), wherein the
second information set is representative of the first information set;
means operable for linking the first information set and the second in-
formation set;
means operable for sending the second information set to a public land
mobile network (PLMN) for presentation to the user at the mobile termi-

nal (PTD);

Page 2 of 3

--- PAGE 3 ---
means operable for receiving authentication information from the mobile
terminal (PTD) through the PLMN; and
means operable for requesting a verification of the received authentica-

tion information before authorizing the transaction.

5
8. A computer program product comprising a computer program adapted to
perform the steps of the method according to any of the claims 1 to 6.
9. A network adapted to perform the steps of the method according to any of
10 the claims 1 to 6.

10.A system adapted to perform the steps of the method according to any of

the claims 1 to 6.

Page 3 of 3