TITLE:
Method of using water soluble polymers in a membrane biological reactor

TYPE:
US Patent

ABSTRACT:
A method of conditioning mixed liquor in a membrane biological reactor comprising adding to the mixed liquor an effective coagulating and flocculating amount of one or more water soluble cationic, amphoteric or zwitterionic polymers, or combination thereof and methods of reducing membrane fouling, enhancing membrane flux and reducing sludge production.

CLAIMS:
1. A method of conditioning mixed liquor in a membrane biological reactor comprising adding to the mixed liquor an effective coagulating and flocculating amount of one or more water soluble cationic, amphoteric or zwitterionic polymers, or combination thereof.
2. The method of claim 1 wherein the water soluble cationic, amphoteric or zwitterionic polymers have a molecular weight of about 2,000 to about 10,000,000 dalton.
3. The method of claim 1 wherein the cationic polymer is a copolymer of acrylamide and one or more cationic monomers selected from diallyldimethylammonium chloride, dimethylaminoethylacrylate methyl chloride quaternary salt, dimethylaminoethylmethacrylate methyl chloride quaternary salt and dimethylaminoethylacrylate benzyl chloride quaternary salt.
4. The method of claim 3 wherein the cationic polymer has a cationic charge of at least about 5 mole percent.
5. The method of claim 3 wherein the cationic polymer is diallyldimethylammonium chloride/acrylamide copolymer.
6. The method of claim 1 wherein the amphoteric polymer is selected from dimethylaminoethyl acrylate methyl chloride quaternary salt/acrylic acid copolymer, diallyldimethylammonium chloride/acrylic acid copolymer, dimethylaminoethyl acrylate methyl chloride salt/N,N-dimethyl-N-methacrylamidopropyl-N-(3-sulfopropyl)-ammonium betaine copolymer, acrylic acid/N,N-dimethyl-N-methacrylamidopropyl-N-(3-sulfopropyl)-ammonium betaine copolymer and DMAEA.MCQ/Acrylic acid/N,N-dimethyl-N-methacrylamidopropyl-N-(3-sulfopropyl)-ammonium betaine terpolymer.
7. The method of claim 6 wherein the amphoteric polymer has a molecular weight of about 5,000 to about 2,000,000 dalton.
8. The method of claim 6 wherein the amphoteric polymer has a cationic charge equivalent to anionic charge equivalent ratio of about 0.2:9.8 to about 9.8:0.2.
9. The method of claim 6 wherein the cationic polymer has a cationic charge of 100 mole percent.
10. The method of claim 9 wherein the cationic polymer has a molecular weight of about 2,000 to about 500,000 dalton.
11. The method of claim 9 wherein the water soluble cationic polymer is selected from the group consisting of polydiallyldimethylammonium chloride, polyethyleneimine, polyepiamine, polyepiamine crosslinked with ammonia or ethylenediamine, condensation polymer of ethylenedichloride and ammonia, condensation polymer of triethanolamine and tall oil fatty acid, poly(dimethylaminoethylmethacrylate sulfuric acid salt) and poly(dimethylaminoethylacrylate methyl chloride quaternary salt).
12. The method of claim 1 wherein the water soluble zwitterionic polymer is a composed of about 1 to about 99 mole percent of N,N-dimethyl-N-methacrylamidopropyl-N-(3-sulfopropyl)-ammonium betaine and about 99 to about 1 mole percent of one or more nonionic monomers.
13. The method of claim 12 wherein the nonionic monomer is acrylamide.
14. A method of clarifying wastewater in a membrane biological reactor where microorganisms consume organic material in the wastewater to form a mixed liquor comprising water, the microorganisms and dissolved and suspended solids comprising
(i) adding to the mixed liquor an effective coagulating and flocculating amount of one or more cationic, amphoteric or zwitterionic polymers, or a mixture thereof, to form a mixture comprising water, the microorganisms and coagulated and flocculated solids; and
(ii) separating clarified water from the microorganisms and the coagulated and flocculated solids by filtration through a membrane.
15. A method of preventing fouling of a filtration membrane in a membrane biological reactor where microorganisms consume organic material in the wastewater in a mixed liquor comprising water, the microorganisms and dissolved, colloidal and suspended solids and wherein clarified water is separated from the mixed liquor by filtration through the filtration membrane comprising adding to the mixed liquor an amount of one or more cationic, amphoteric or zwitterionic polymers, or a combination thereof, sufficient to prevent fouling of the membrane.
16. A method of enhancing flux through a filtration membrane in a membrane biological reactor where microorganisms consume organic material in the wastewater in a mixed liquor comprising water, the microorganisms and dissolved, colloidal and suspended solids and wherein clarified water is separated from the mixed liquor by filtration through the filtration membrane comprising adding to the mixed liquor an effective flux enhancing amount of one or more cationic, amphoteric or zwitterionic polymers, or a combination thereof.
17. A method of reducing sludge formation in a membrane biological reactor where microorganisms consume organic material in the wastewater to form a mixed liquor comprising water, the microorganisms and a sludge comprising dissolved, colloidal and suspended solids and wherein clarified water is separated from the mixed liquor by filtration through a membrane comprising
1) adding to the mixed liquor an effective coagulating and flocculating amount of one or more cationic, amphoteric or zwitterionic polymers, or a combination thereof; and
2) increasing the concentration of microorganisms in the mixed liquor.
18. A method of reducing sludge formation in a membrane biological reactor where microorganisms consume organic material in the wastewater to form a mixed liquor comprising water, the microorganisms and a sludge comprising dissolved, colloidal and suspended solids and wherein clarified water is separated from the mixed liquor by filtration through a membrane comprising
1) adding to the mixed liquor an effective coagulating and flocculating amount of one or more cationic, amphoteric or zwitterionic polymers, or a combination thereof, and
2) increasing the amount of time that the microorganisms remain in contact with the wastewater.