The applicant (appellant) appealed against the decision of the Examining Division refusing European patent application No. 04016253.9. II. The decision cited inter alia the following documents: D1:  JP 11 215457 A, 6 August 1999; and D4:  Tonomura Y. et al.: "Content Oriented Visual Interface Using Video Icons for Visual Database Systems", Proceedings of the 1989 IEEE Workshop on Visual Languages, Rome, Italy, 4-6 October 1989, pages 68 to 73. The Examining Division decided that the subject-matter of claim 1 of the then main request did not involve an inventive step in view of a combination of documents D1 and D4. The then first (and only) auxiliary request was not admitted into the proceedings. III. With the statement of grounds of appeal, the appellant replaced its substantive request with a main request and auxiliary requests 1 and 2, all based on the main request considered in the decision under appeal with features taken from the description added to the independent claims. IV. In a communication accompanying a summons to oral proceedings, the Board expressed as its preliminary opinion that the subject-matter of claim 1 of all requests lacked inventive step and raised the question whether the claim feature "the plurality of images are independent still images" complied with Articles 84 and 123(2) EPC. Annexed to the communication was an English translation of document D1. V. With a letter dated 9 September 2015, the appellant filed further auxiliary requests 3 and 4. VI. In the course of oral proceedings held on 16 October 2015, the appellant filed an auxiliary request 5. At the end of the oral proceedings, the chairman pronounced the Board's decision. VII. The appellant requested that the decision under appeal be set aside and that a patent be granted on the basis of the claims of the main request or, in the alternative, on the basis of the claims of one of auxiliary requests 1 to 5. VIII. Claim 1 of the main request reads as follows: "An information processing apparatus comprising: classifying means (801) for classifying a plurality of images into predetermined time slots based on time information attached to the images; display control means (805) for displaying the images classified into the time slots by the classifying means (801) in display regions corresponding to the time slots; and characterised in that the apparatus further comprises selection means (806) configured to repeatedly decide for each time slot separately whether or not to replace an image classified into the time slot and displayed in the corresponding display region with another image classified into the same time slot, and that the plurality of images are independent still images." IX. Claim 1 of auxiliary request 1 differs from claim 1 of the main request in that the feature "that the selection means is configured to sequentially select all images" has been added at the end of the claim. X. Claim 1 of auxiliary request 2 differs from claim 1 of the main request in that the phrase "and that the plurality of images are independent still images" has been replaced with the following text: "that the display control means displays at least two images at the same time, and that the selection means is configured to replace the at least two images not at the same time." XI. Claim 1 of auxiliary request 3 differs from claim 1 of the main request in that "independent still images" has been replaced with "still images". XII. Claim 1 of auxiliary request 4 differs from claim 1 of auxiliary request 1 in that "independent still images" has been replaced with "still images". XIII. Claim 1 of auxiliary request 5 differs from claim 1 of the main request in that the text ", on the basis of a probability" has been inserted after the words "classified into the same time slot". XIV. The appellant's arguments relevant to this decision are discussed in detail below.