TITLE:
Photographed image display device and photographed image display method

TYPE:
Japanese Patent

ABSTRACT:
(57) [Summary] [Problem] To provide a photographed image display device and a photographed image display method capable of easily grasping the recording state of a photographed image and facilitating retrieval of a desired photographed image. SOLUTION: A reduced image of a recorded captured image is displayed in a calendar for each period (year, month, day). When the user designates a desired reduced image, the designated image is searched for and reproduced / displayed. For example, if there is a monthly display instruction,
A monthly calendar display screen 80 in a format as shown in FIG. 8 is displayed on the display unit, the date column of the edit table by date is searched for the current year and month (May 1997), and the reduced image numbers in the month are searched. The extracted and recorded reduced image data is read out and reproduced, and the reduced image of the image taken in the month is displayed for each day. The user can use the scroll display button 81
By operating the 4,815,831,832, the front and rear reduced images are displayed, and if there is a desired image, the photographed image is reproduced / displayed by pointing to it.

CLAIMS:
[Claims] A storage unit configured to store a plurality of captured images; a display unit configured to display the captured images stored in the storage unit; and a predetermined imaging unit configured to capture the plurality of captured images stored in the storage unit. A photographed image display apparatus comprising: a classifying means for classifying each photographing period; and a display control means for displaying the photographed images classified by the classifying means on the display means. 2. The photographed image display device according to claim 1, further comprising a designation unit for designating the predetermined photographing period. 3. A photographing apparatus according to claim 1, further comprising a designation unit for designating a desired photographed image among the photographed images displayed on said display unit by said display control unit, wherein said display control unit further comprises a photographed image designated by said designation unit. 3. The photographed image display device according to claim 1, further comprising: means for enlarging and displaying the image. 4. A character input means for inputting a character for each of said predetermined photographing periods, wherein said display control means displays said photographed image and characters inputted by said character input means for each of said predetermined photographing periods. 4. A display according to claim 1, wherein
The captured image display device according to any one of the above. 5. An audio input unit for inputting audio for each of the predetermined photographing periods, wherein the display control unit detects the presence of the photographed image and the sound input by the audio input unit for each of the predetermined photographing periods. The photographed image display device according to any one of claims 1 to 4, wherein a voice mark is displayed on the display unit. 6. A storage means for storing a plurality of captured images, a display means for displaying the captured images stored in the storage means, a photography period designating means for designating a photography period, and a photographing period designating means. A display control means for reading out a photographed image photographed during a designated photographing period from the storage means and displaying the photographed image on the display means. 7. A storage unit for storing a plurality of captured images, a display unit for displaying the captured images stored in the storage unit, and a display unit for displaying the captured images stored in the storage unit. In this case, when a plurality of captured images captured during the same period are present, a display control unit that displays one of the captured images as a representative captured image is provided. 8. A display device, comprising: a designation unit for designating the representative photographed image displayed on the display unit by the display control unit, wherein the display control unit further designates the representative photographed image by the designation unit. 8. The photographed image display device according to claim 7, further comprising means for displaying, on the display means, a photographed image photographed within the same period as the representative photographed image. 9. A photographed image display method comprising: classifying a plurality of photographed images stored in a storage means for each predetermined photographing period; and displaying the classified photographed images on a display means.