The appeal was lodged by the applicant (hereinafter "appellant") against the decision of the examining division to refuse European patent application No. 02 799 751. This application was filed as an international application and published as WO 03/054019 (hereafter the "application") having the title "Therapeutic anti-TIRC7 antibodies for use in immune related and other diseases". II. The examining division held inter alia that the subject-matter of claim 1 of the sole request before it lacked inventive step (Article 56 EPC) having regard to the disclosure of document D1 alone (the respective document is identified in section VI below). III. The appellant indicated with its notice of appeal that its main request corresponded to the request on which the impugned decision was based, and filed with its statement of grounds of appeal three auxiliary requests. Claim 1 of the main request reads: "1. A monoclonal antibody or antigen binding molecule which is capable of binding to an antigen comprising or consisting of the amino acid sequence SEQ ID NO: 10 wherein the antibody or antigen binding molecule comprises the complementarity determining regions (CDRs) of the VH and the complementarity determining regions (CDRs) of the VL variable regions of which variable regions are set forth in Figure 6 (VH) (SEQ ID NO: 6) and Figure 7 (VL) (SEQ ID NO: 8)." Claim 1 of auxiliary request 1 differs from claim 1 of the main request in that the words "comprising or" are deleted. Claim 1 of auxiliary request 2 differs from claim 1 of the main request in that the expression "or antigen binding molecule" is deleted. Claim 1 of auxiliary request 3 combines both amendments and thus reads: "1. A monoclonal antibody which is capable of binding to an antigen consisting of the amino acid sequence SEQ ID NO: 10 wherein the antibody comprises the complementarity determining regions (CDRs) of the VH and the complementarity determining regions (CDRs) of the VL variable regions of which variable regions are set forth in Figure 6 (VH) (SEQ ID NO: 6) and Figure 7 (VL) (SEQ ID NO: 8)." IV. Following a communication from the board pursuant to Article 15(1) RPBA setting out its preliminary view that the monoclonal antibodies referred to in claim 1 of all requests lacked unexpected properties vis-à-vis the polyclonal antibodies of document D1, the appellant submitted comparative experimental data of a monoclonal antibody according to claim 1, denoted as neliximab, and a polyclonal antibody of document D1 (the respective documents are identified in section VI below). V. Oral proceedings before the board took place on 11 September 2015. During the oral proceedings the appellant referred to further experimental data submitted with its letter dated 20 July 2009 during the examination proceedings (the respective document is identified in section VI below). At the end of the oral proceedings the chairwoman announced the board's decision. VI. The following documents are cited in this decision: Dl:  WO 99/11782 D2:  Comparative experimental data filed with the letter dated 11 August 2015 concerning the effect of neliximab and a polyclonal anti-T-cell immune response cDNA 7 (TIRC7) antibody of document D1 on the expression of nuclear factor of activated T-cells, cytoplasmic (NFATc) and the phosphorylation of the protein 53 (p53). D3:  Experimental data of a study concerning neliximab's effect on allograft survival time in a mouse cardiac transplantation model submitted under the heading "Efficacy in transplantation therapy" with the letter dated 20 July 2009. VII. The appellant's arguments may be summarised as follows: The polyclonal anti-TIRC7 antibodies of document D1 represented the closest prior art. The antibodies of claim 1 differed therefrom by their monoclonal nature and in that amino acid sequences defining the specific complementarity determining regions (CDRs) were specified. It was disclosed in the application that neliximab as an antibody representing the antibodies claimed inhibited T-cell proliferation including the secretion of interferon-gamma (IFN-gamma) and interleukin-2 (IL-2) from these T-cells. This activity made it suitable for transplantation therapy. The skilled person would infer from the claimed antibodies' usefulness for transplantation therapy as suggested in the application that this was due to the induction of immunotolerant T-cells. This effect was supported by the comparative data of document D2 that disclosed that neliximab increased the gene expression of the nuclear factor of activated T-cells, cytoplasmic (NFATc) - a central mediator known to be involved in the induction of immunotolerant T-cells - while the closest prior art polyclonal antibody Ab76 of document D1 had no effect on NFATc gene expression. Document D3 disclosed that neliximab induced a long-term (145 days post-transplantation) heart allograft survival in 20% of the mice treated. A survival rate of 20% reflected a value associated with the presence of immunotolerant T-cells. The induction of immunotolerant T-cells by neliximab improved its effectiveness in transplantation therapy vis-à-vis the closest prior art antibodies. The technical problem to be solved was thus the provision of immunosuppressive anti-TIRC7 antibodies that induced immunotolerant T-cells for improving transplantation therapy as reflected by an increased graft survival time. Neliximab and the closest prior art antibodies were all raised against substantially identical epitopes on TIRC7 but surprisingly influenced immune signalling in T-cells differently. The antibodies according to claim 1 thus had superior properties which were unexpected and hence they involved an inventive step. VIII. The appellant requested that the decision under appeal be set aside and that a European patent be granted on the basis of the set of claims of the main request on which the decision under appeal was based, or alternatively on the basis of one of the set of claims filed as auxiliary requests 1 to 3 with the statement of grounds of appeal.