The appeal is against the decision of the Examining Division refusing European patent application No. 03 090 314 on the grounds that the subject-matter of the main request did not meet the requirements of Articles 84 and 123(2) EPC and that the subject-matter of the first auxiliary request did not meet the requirements of Article 84 EPC and did not involve an inventive step within the meaning of Article 56 EPC. II. The appellant requested in writing that the decision under appeal be set aside, and that a patent be granted based on the main request or one of the first to fifth auxiliary requests all filed with the letter of 17 August 2015. III. Oral proceedings before the Board were held in the absence of the appellant, the appellant having previously stated in writing that it would not attend the oral proceedings. IV. The following documents cited by the Examining Division are referred to in this decision: D1: US 2002/0018059 A1 D3: JP 2002 174823 A V. Claim 1 of the main request reads as follows: "A display unit comprising: a substrate; a display portion; a gate driver circuit (3) for controlling switching of pixels of each line in the display portion (11); a common drive circuit (4) for said display portion (11) for simultaneously driving capacitance loads in said display portion (11), wherein the common drive circuit (4) comprises: a first voltage supply, a second voltage supply for providing a voltage that is lower than a voltage of said first voltage supply, at least one first transistor (41) including either a drain or a source terminal connected to said first voltage supply, at least one second transistor (42) including either a drain or a source terminal connected to said second voltage supply, at least one signal line connected to each gate terminal of said first and second transistors (41, 42), characterized in that said first and second transistors (41,42) are composed of thin-film transistors; said at least one signal line conveys a common inversion signal having a high level that is substantially the same or higher than the voltage of said first voltage supply and having a low level that is substantially the same or lower than the voltage of said second voltage supply to each gate terminal of said first and second transistors (41,42); said common drive circuit (4) further comprises a level shift (43) and a common inversion timing signal buffer (44) connected to each gate terminal of said first and second transistors (41,42); said common inversion signal applied to each gate terminal of said first and second transistors (41,42) uses power of said gate driver circuit (3); and respective drain and source terminals of said first and said second transistors (41,42) not connected to said first and second voltage supplies are connected to at least one capacitance load in the display portion (11), wherein said display portion (11), said gate driver circuit (3) and said common drive circuit (4) are mounted on the substrate (10)." Claim 1 of the first auxiliary request is essentially the same as claim 1 of the main request except that the following feature: "a voltage level of the gate driver circuit (3) is adapted to a voltage level of the common inversion signal;" replaces the following feature of claim 1 of the main request: "said common inversion signal applied to each gate terminal of said first and second transistors (41,42) uses power of said gate driver circuit (3); and". Claim 1 of the second auxiliary request is essentially the same as claim 1 of the main request except that the following feature has been omitted: "said common drive circuit (4) further comprises a level shift (43) and a common inversion timing signal buffer (44) connected to each gate terminal of said first and second transistors (41,42)". The claims of the third, fourth and fifth auxiliary requests are the same as those of the main, first and second requests, respectively. These later requests differ from the first three in that figure 7 has been omitted (and the description correspondingly adapted). VI. In a communication under Article 15(1) RPBA sent to the appellant with the summons to oral proceedings, the Board raised provisional objections under Article 123(2) and Article 84 EPC 1973, and made the following comment: "In view of the number of objections raised above under Article 123(2) EPC and Article 84 EPC, it does not appear expedient at the present time to discuss the issues of novelty and inventive step in relation to the present requests. These matters may arise during oral proceedings." VII. The appellant's arguments, insofar as they are relevant to the present decision, may be briefly summarised as follows: In the light of the amendments made, all requests met the requirements of Articles 84 and 123(2) EPC. With respect to the inventive step, the technical effect achieved by the distinguishing features was to reduce the ON resistance of the drive circuit and shorten the gate length of the transistors, enabling the circuit area to be made small. The FETs disclosed in the close The Examining Division's argument put forward in the contested decision was based on an "ex post facto" analysis. Of course, the person skilled in the art implementing the circuit of D1 directly on a panel substrate would know that thin film resistors have lower current capability than the bipolar transistors and FETs. A straightforward approach in order to compensate this lower current capability would be to provide a larger area for placing the common drive circuit. Even though the person skilled in the art would know that an increase in gate voltage results in a reduction in channel resistance, document D1 did not give any incitation to apply this knowledge in order to reduce the ON resistance. According to the present invention, the absolute values of the voltage level, i.e. the high and low levels of the respective signal were raised in order to drive the TFTs. Such an approach contradicted standard procedure in the art which was normally intended to reduce the applied voltage levels.