TITLE:
Voltage generating circuit, and common electrode drive circuit, signal line drive circuit and gray-scale voltage generating circuit for display devices

TYPE:
US Patent

ABSTRACT:
A drive circuit for a display device supplying a plurality of gray-scale voltages to the display device, based on externally supplied digital video signal data, includes: a plurality of gray-scale power supplies, a plurality of drive power supplies, a unit for forming a first part of the plurality of gray-scale voltages using the gray-scale voltage power supplies, and a unit for forming a second part of the plurality of gray-scale voltages using the drive power supplies.

CLAIMS:
1. A drive circuit for a display device supplying a plurality of gray-scale voltages to the display device, based on externally supplied digital video signal data, comprising: a plurality of gray-scale power supplies, a plurality of drive power supplies, means for forming a first part of the plurality of gray-scale voltages using the gray-scale voltage power supplies, and means for forming a second part of the plurality of gray-scale voltages using the drive power supplies.
2. A drive circuit for a display device according to claim 1, wherein the gray-scale voltages formed by the drive power supplies is at least one of a maximum gray-scale voltage and a minimum gray-scale voltage among the plurality of gray-scale voltages.
3. A drive circuit for a display device according to claim 1, wherein the means for forming the second part of the plurality of gray-scale voltages by the drive power supplies comprises a pair of ON-OFF control means for forming one of the plurality of gray-scale voltages, respectively provided in first and second sections, one of the pair of ON-OFF control means in the first section is an AND circuit, the other of the pair of ON-OFF control means in the first section is a NOR circuit, the AND circuit performs an ON-OFF switch of one of the pair of ON-OFF control means in the second section, and the NOR circuit performs an ON-OFF switch of the other of the pair of ON-OFF control means in the second section.
4. A voltage generating circuit comprising:
two D.C. power supplies respectively outputting predetermined voltages at different levels;
means, which comprises switching means for alternately selecting the output voltages supplied from the two D.C. power supplies to output the selected voltage, for outputting an A.C. voltage based on the output voltage selected by the switching means; and
capacitor means branched to be connected to two wirings electrically connecting the respective D.C. power supplies to the switching means.
5. A voltage generating circuit according to claim 4, wherein the capacitor means is independently connected to the two wirings.
6. A voltage generating circuit according to claim 4, wherein the two wirings are connected to each other with the capacitor means therebetween.
7. A voltage generating circuit according to claim 4, wherein two kinds of control voltages at predetermined electric potentials are respectively input to the two D.C. power supplies, one of the two D.C. power supplies outputs a voltage equal to a sum of the two kinds of control voltages, and the other of the two D.C. power supplies outputs a voltage equal to a difference between the two kinds of control voltages.
8. A common electrode drive circuit for a display device in which pixel electrodes are provided on one of two substrates facing each other with a display body sandwiched therebetween and a common electrode, which constitutes capacitance between the common electrode and the pixel electrodes, is provided on the other substrate, for driving the common electrode, the common electrode drive circuit comprising:
two D.C. power supplies respectively outputting predetermined voltages at different levels;
means, which comprises switching means for alternately selecting the output voltages supplied from the two D.C. power supplies to output the selected voltage, for outputting an A.C. voltage based on the output voltage selected by the switching means; and
capacitor means branched to be connected to two wirings electrically connecting the respective D.C. power supplies to the switching means.
9. A common electrode drive circuit according to claim 8, wherein the capacitor means is independently connected to the two wirings.
10. A common electrode drive circuit according to claim 8, wherein the two wirings are connected to each other with the capacitor means therebetween.
11. A common electrode drive circuit according to claim 8, wherein two kinds of control voltages at predetermined electric potentials are respectively input to the two D.C. power supplies, one of the two D.C. power supplies outputs a voltage equal to a sum of the two kinds of control voltages, and the other of the two D.C. power supplies outputs a voltage equal to a difference between the two kinds of control voltages.
12. A source driver for a display device in which pixel electrodes and signal lines are provided on one of two substrates facing each other with a display body sandwiched therebetween, for supplying a signal to the pixel electrodes through the signal lines, the source driver comprising at least two voltage supply sources for supplying a voltage to the signal lines respectively comprising:
two D.C. power supplies respectively outputting predetermined voltages at different levels;
means, which comprises switching means for alternately selecting the output voltages supplied from the two D.C. power supplies to output the selected voltage, for outputting an A.C. voltage based on the output voltage selected by the switching means; and
capacitor means branched to be connected to two wirings electrically connecting the respective D.C. power supplies to the switching means.
13. A source driver according to claim 12, wherein the capacitor means is independently connected to the two wirings.
14. A source driver according to claim 12, wherein the two wirings are connected to each other with the capacitor means therebetween.
15. A source driver according to claim 12, wherein two kinds of control voltages at predetermined electric potentials are respectively input to the two D.C. power supplies, one of the two D.C. power supplies outputs a voltage equal to a sum of the two kinds of control voltages, and the other of the two D.C. power supplies outputs a voltage equal to a difference between the two kinds of the control voltages.
16. A gray-scale voltage generating circuit for a display device in which pixel electrodes are provided on one of two substrates facing each other with a display body sandwiched therebetween, for supplying a plurality of gray-scale voltages to the pixel electrodes, based on a digital video signal externally supplied, the gray-scale voltage generating circuit comprising:
a plurality of voltage generating circuits outputting A.C. voltages at different levels; and
first capacitor means provided between any two of the plurality of voltage generating circuits,
each of the voltage generating circuits comprising:
two voltage sources outputting voltages at different levels; and
switching means which receives voltages output from the two voltage sources and externally outputs one of the voltages,
wherein one terminal of the first capacitor means is connected between either one of the two voltage sources and the switching means in one of the two voltage generating circuits and the other terminal of the first capacitor means is connected between either one of the two voltage sources and the switching means in the other of the two voltage generating circuits.
17. A gray-scale voltage generating circuit according to claim 16, wherein each of the voltage generating circuits further comprises second capacitor means, and one terminal of the second capacitor means is connected between one of the two voltage sources and the switching means.
18. A gray-scale voltage generating circuit according to claim 16, wherein the voltage generating circuit further comprises third capacitor means, one terminal of the third capacitor means is connected between one of the two voltage sources and the switching means and the other terminal of the third capacitor means is connected between the other of the two voltage sources and the switching means.
19. A source driver electrically connected to a capacitance load of a display body which performs a display with a charge charged in the capacitive load, the source driver comprising:
a gray-scale voltage generating circuit outputting a plurality of A.C. voltages at different levels; and
means for outputting a voltage to the display body, the voltage being among the plurality of A.C. voltages output from the gray-scale voltage generating circuit, corresponding to image data to be displayed on the display body,
each of the gray-scale voltage generating circuits comprising:
a plurality of voltage generating circuits outputting A.C. voltages at different levels; and
first capacitor means provided between any two of the plurality of voltage generating circuits,
each of the voltage generating circuit comprising:
two voltage sources outputting voltages at different levels; and
switching means which receives voltages output from the two voltage sources and outputs one of the two voltages to the capacitance load,
wherein one terminal of the first capacitor means is connected between either one of the two voltage sources and the switching means in one of the two voltage generating circuits and the other terminal of the first capacitor means is connected between either one of the two voltage sources and the switching means in the other of the two voltage generating circuits.
20. A voltage generating circuit comprising:
a power supply outputting a power supply signal in an A.C. waveform, the power supply signal alternately having a first period in which the power supply signal is at a first level and a second period in which the power supply signal is at a second level;
a power supply line one terminal of which is connected to the power supply;
a load connected to the other terminal of the power supply line, which receives the power supply signal from the power supply;
a plurality of charge storage means connected so as to be in parallel with the power supply line between the power supply and the load; and
a plurality of switching means respectively provided between the power supply line and each of the charge storage means, the plurality of switching means connecting a first part of the plurality of charge storage means to the power supply while disconnecting a second part of the plurality of charge storage means from the power supply when the power supply signal is in the first period, and connecting the second part of the plurality of charge storage means to the power supply while disconnecting the first part of the plurality of charge storage means from the power supply when the power supply signal is in the second period.
21. A voltage generating circuit according to claim 20, wherein a pair of charge storage means are connected in parallel with the power supply line.
22. A voltage generating circuit according to claim 21, wherein a pair of power supplies and a pair of power supply lines are used.
23. A voltage generating circuit according to claim 22, wherein the plurality of switching means are respectively provided between one of the pair of charge storage means and the pair of power supply lines and between the other of the pair of charge storage means and the pair of power supply lines.
24. A voltage generating circuit according to claim 20, wherein the power supply signal is in a rectangular waveform.
25. A voltage generating circuit comprising:
a power supply outputting a plurality of power supply signals in an A.C. waveform at different levels, each of the power supply signals alternately having a first period in which the power supply signal is at a first level and a second period in which the power supply signal is at a second level;
a plurality of power supply lines, one terminal of each of the power supply lines being connected to the power supply, respectively receiving the plurality of power supply signals from the power supply;
a plurality of loads, each of the loads being connected to the other terminal of each of the power supply lines, respectively receiving the plurality of power supply signals from the power supply;
charge storage means connected between the plurality of power supply lines provided between the power supply and the plurality of loads, having a first electrode and a second electrode;
a plurality of switching means respectively provided between the plurality of power supply lines and the first electrode of the charge storage means and between the plurality of power supply lines and the second electrode of the charge storage means, each of the plurality of switching means connecting the first electrode to a power supply line which receives one of the plurality of power supply signals while connecting the second electrode to a power supply line other than the power supply line which receives the one of the plurality of power supply signals, when the one of the plurality of power supply signals is in the first period, and each of the plurality of switching means connecting the first electrode to one of the power supply lines other than the power supply line which receives the one of the power supply signals while connecting the second electrode to the power supply line which receives the one of the power supply signals, when the one of the plurality of power supply signals is in the second period.
26. A voltage generating circuit according to claim 25, wherein a pair of power supplies and a pair of power supply lines are used, a pair of charge storage means are connected in parallel with each of the power source lines, the plurality of switching means comprise a first switching element, a second switching element, a third switching element, and a fourth switching element, the first and third switching elements are respectively provided between the first electrode and one of the pair of the power supply lines, the second and fourth switching elements are respectively provided between the second electrode and the other of the pair of the power supply lines, the first and fourth switching elements are synchronously turned on or off, and the second and third switching elements are coupled to each other.
27. A voltage generating circuit according to claim 25, wherein the power supply signal is in a rectangular waveform.
28. A voltage generating circuit comprising:
a first power supply outputting a first voltage in an A.C. waveform oscillating between a first level and a second level to a power supply line connected to a load;
a second power supply outputting a second voltage at a predetermined level;
a third power supply outputting a third voltage at a predetermined level;
a first switch connected in parallel with the power supply line;
storage means connected between the first switch and the second power supply;
a second switch connected between the storage means and the third power supply so as to be in parallel with the first switch;
control means for controlling the first and second switches so that the second switch is in a non-conductive state when the first switch is in a conductive state, the second switch is in a conductive state when the first switch is in a non-conductive state, the storage means is disconnected from the third power supply by the second switch in a period including a period in which the storage means is connected to the first power supply by the first switch, and the storage means is connected to the third power supply by the second switch in a period including a period in which the storage means is disconnected from the f irst power supply by the first switch.
29. A voltage generating circuit according to claim 28, wherein the control means selects a timing, at which the storage means is connected to the first power supply, right after the first voltage from the first power supply is switched between the first and second levels, and part of charge, which is to be supplied or absorbed between the first power supply and the load at a time of switching of a level of the first voltage, is compensated by the storage means.
30. A voltage generating circuit according to claim 29, wherein a plurality of storage means are used, the control means connects a first part of the plurality of storage means to the first power supply only when the first voltage from the first power supply is at the first level and connects a second part of the plurality of storage means to the first power supply only when the first voltage from the first power supply is at the second level.
31. A voltage generating circuit comprising:
a first power supply outputting a first voltage in an A.C. waveform to a power supply line, the first voltage oscillating between a first level and a second level and having an output cut-off period between a period of the first level and a period of the second level;
a second power supply outputting a second voltage at a predetermined level;
a third power supply outputting a third voltage at a level in the vicinity of the first level;
a fourth power supply outputting a fourth voltage at a level in the vicinity of the second level;
a first switch and a second switch connected to the power supply line, the first switch being in parallel with the second switch;
first storage means connected between the first switch and the second power supply;
second storage means connected between the second switch and the second power supply;
a third switch connected between the first storage means and the third power supply so as to be in parallel with the first switch;
a fourth switch connected between the second storage means and the fourth power supply so as to be in parallel with the second switch; and
control means for controlling the first and third switches so that the third switch is in a non-conductive state when the first switch is in a conductive state, the third switch is in a conductive state when the first switch is in a non-conductive state, during a period including a period in which the first voltage output to the power supply line is at the first level, the storage means being disconnected from the third power supply by the third switch during a period in which the storage means is connected to the power supply line by the first switch, the storage means being connected to the third power supply by the third switch during a period in which the storage means is disconnected from the power supply line by the first switch, the storage means being connected to the power supply line during the output cut-off period of the first voltage,
the control means further controlling the second and fourth switches so that the fourth switch is in a non-conductive state when the second switch is in a conductive state, the fourth switch is in a conductive state when the second switch is in a non-conductive state, during a period including a period in which the first voltage output to the power supply is at the second level, the storage means being disconnected from the third power supply by the fourth switch during a period in which the storage means is connected to the power supply line by the second switch, the storage means being connected to the third power supply by the fourth switch during a period in which the storage means is disconnected from the power supply line by the second switch, the storage means being connected to the power supply line during the output cut-off period of the first voltage.
32. A voltage generating circuit according to claim 31, wherein the first power supply comprises: a plurality of D.C. power supplies respectively outputting a plurality of D.C. voltages at different levels; a plurality of storage means respectively connected to an output terminal of each of the D.C. power supplies; and a plurality of switches respectively connected between the plurality of storage means and the power supply line.
33. A voltage generating circuit according to claim 32, wherein the control means controls the first, second, third, and fourth switches so that the storage means is connected to the first power supply, at a time when the D.C. power supply, which has been connected to the storage means up to a time when the first voltage from the first power supply is switched between the first level and the second level, is disconnected therefrom or at a time right after the D.C. power supply is disconnected therefrom.
34. A voltage generating circuit according to claim 31, wherein a D.C. power supply is used as the third and fourth power supplies.
35. A drive circuit for a display device in which pixel electrodes are provided on one of two substrates facing each other with a display body sandwiched therebetween and the common electrode forms capacitance between the common electrode and the pixel electrodes, the drive circuit comprising:
a common electrode drive circuit outputting two kinds of voltages at different levels in a rectangular waveform to the common electrode;
a voltage generating circuit generating a voltage at an arbitrary level between the levels of the two kinds of voltages in a rectangular waveform; and
switching means for switching an output of the common electrode drive circuit to an output of the voltage generating circuit during a predetermined period in which the level of the voltage in a rectangular waveform is switched.
36. A drive circuit for a display device according to claim 35, wherein the switching means includes a first switching element and a second switching element, the first switching element switches the output of the common electrode drive circuit or an output of a gray-scale voltage drive circuit, the second switching element switches the output of the voltage generating circuit, whereby the output of the common electrode drive circuit or the output of the gray-scale voltage drive circuit to the output of the voltage generating circuit during the predetermined period in which the level of the voltage in a rectangular waveform is switched, the first and second switching elements are controlled so as to be turned off together, and an OFF period is set to be longer than a switching period which is a transient period of the first and second switching elements.
37. A drive circuit for a display device comprising:
a gray-scale voltage drive circuit which directly outputs externally supplied gray-scale voltages or outputs interpolated voltages formed of the combination of the gray-scale voltages, thereby applying two kinds of voltages at different levels in a rectangular waveform to signal lines;
a voltage generating circuit generating a voltage at an arbitrary level between the levels of the two kinds of voltages in a rectangular waveform; and
switching means for switching an output of the gray-scale voltage drive circuit to an output of the voltage generating circuit during a predetermined period in which the level of the voltage in a rectangular waveform is switched.
38. A drive circuit for a display device according to claim 37, wherein the switching means includes a first switching element and a second switching element, the first switching element switches the output of the common electrode drive circuit or an output of a gray-scale voltage drive circuit, the second switching element switches the output of the voltage generating circuit, whereby the output of the common electrode drive circuit or the output of the gray-scale voltage drive circuit to the output of the voltage generating circuit during the predetermined period in which the level of the voltage in a rectangular waveform is switched, the first and second switching elements are controlled so as to be turned off together, and an OFF period is set to be longer than a switching period which is a transient period of the first and second switching elements.
39. A voltage generating circuit comprising:
a plurality of power supplies respectively outputting a voltage at a predetermined level, the respective levels of the voltages being different from each other;
a first switching means group including a plurality of switching means which respectively receive the voltage from the respective power supplies, in which the switching means is successively turned on, whereby a voltage whose level is switched from the level of the voltage from the respective power supplies is output; and
a second switching means one terminal of which is connected to an output side of the first switching means group and the other terminal of which is grounded, the second switching means being turned on only during a period including a time at which the level of the voltage, whose level is to be switched, is switched and being turned off during the other period.
40. A voltage generating circuit according to claim 39, wherein either one of the plurality of switching means forming the first switching means group and the second switching means is selected to be turned on and switching means to be turned on is moved sequentially.
41. A voltage generating circuit according to claim 39, wherein in the case where each of the switching means forming the first switching means group and the second switching means use a switch having a large transient response, an OFF period is set to be sufficiently long so that each switch is not turned on simultaneously.
42. A common electrode drive circuit for a display device in which pixel electrodes are provided on one of two substrates facing each other with a display body sandwiched therebetween and a common electrode, which constitutes capacitance between the common electrode and the pixel electrodes, is provided on the other substrate, for driving the common electrode, the common electrode drive circuit comprising:
a plurality of power supplies respectively outputting a voltage at a predetermined level, the respective levels of the voltages being different from each other;
a first switching means group including a plurality of switching means which respectively receive the voltage from the respective power supplies, in which the switching means is successively turned on, whereby a voltage whose level is switched from the level of the voltage from the respective power supplies is output; and
a second switching means one terminal of which is connected to an output side of the first switching means group and the other terminal of which is grounded, the second switching means being turned on only during a period including a time at which the level of the voltage, whose level is to be switched, is switched and being turned off during the other period.
43. A common electrode drive circuit according to claim 42, wherein either one of the plurality of switching means forming the first switching means group and the second switching means is selected to be turned on and switching means to be turned on is moved sequentially.
44. A common electrode drive circuit according to claim 42, wherein in the case where each of the switching means forming the first switching means group and the second switching means use a switch having a large transient response, an OFF period is set to be sufficiently long so that the switches are not turned on simultaneously.
45. A gray-scale voltage generating circuit for a display device in which pixel electrodes are provided on one of two substrates facing each other with a display body sandwiched therebetween, for supplying a plurality of gray-scale voltages to the pixel electrodes, based on an externally supplied digital video signal, the gray-scale voltage generating circuit comprising:
a plurality of power supplies respectively outputting a voltage at a predetermined level, the respective levels of the voltages being different from each other;
a first switching means group including a plurality of switching means which respectively receive the voltage from the respective power supplies, in which the switching means is successively turned on, whereby a voltage whose level is switched from the level of the voltage from the respective power supplies is output; and
a second switching means one terminal of which is connected to an output side of the first switching means group and the other terminal of which is grounded, the second switching means being turned on only during a period including a time at which the level of the voltage, whose level is to be switched, is switched and being turned off during the other period.
46. A gray-scale voltage generating circuit for a display device according to claim 45, wherein either one of the plurality of switching means forming the first switching means group and the second switching means is selected to be turned on and switching means to be turned on is moved sequentially.
47. A common electrode drive circuit for a display device according to claim 45, wherein in the case where each of the switching means forming the first switching means group and the second switching means use a switch having a large transient response, an OFF period is set to be sufficiently long so that the switches are not turned on simultaneously.