The appeal lies from the decision of the Examining Division to refuse European patent application No. 07120344.2. The refusal is written as a "decision according to the state of the file", using EPO Form 2061, referring to a communication accompanying the summons to oral proceedings dated 23 October 2008 and to a communication sent per fax on 19 January 2009. The application concerns generating an executable for representing an Extensible Markup Language (XML) document including authentication and policy logic. II. The following documents were cited in the examination procedure: D1:  Horn, C., "Binary XML Transfer using Direct Compilation Techniques", Experience Report and Position Paper W3C Workshop on Binary Interchange of XML Information Item Sets, Santa Clara, CA, USA, 24 September 2003, Internet extracted: 11 March 2008; D2:  Geuer-Pollmann, C., "XML Pool Encryption", Proceedings of the ACM Workshop on XML Security 2002, Fairfax, VA, USA, 22 November 2002. III. In the statement of grounds of appeal, the appellant requested that the decision be set aside and that a patent be granted on the basis of the last request filed during the examination proceedings on 17 December 2008, including claims 1 to 21. Oral proceedings were requested before a final decision by the Board. IV. The appellant was invited to oral proceedings with a summons dated 16 December 2014. In a subsequent communication in advance of the oral proceedings, the Board expressed its preliminary opinion that the subject-matter of the independent claims extended beyond the content of the application as filed and did not involve an inventive step. V. With a letter dated 13 March 2015, the appellant informed the Board that no one would be attending the oral proceedings on its behalf and requested that the oral proceedings nonetheless proceeded in its absence. The appellant did not reply to the reasoning of the Board. VI. Oral proceedings were held on 21 April 2015 in the absence of the appellant. At the end of the oral proceedings, the chairman pronounced the Board's decision. VII. Claim 1 of the appellant's sole request reads as follows: "A computer-implemented method, comprising: parsing (110) an extensible markup language (XML) document to acquire components of the document and content associated with each of the components; generating (120) an executable, which when subsequently executed by a machine reproduces the original XML document's hierarchy of components and content as a data structure that is accessible within memory of that machine; receiving (210) the executable at a recipients machine; processing (220) the executable by the machine to produce a loaded version of components and content associated with the document, which is mapped to a data structure for subsequent use by XML-enabled applications to render the XML document within the machine or environment of the recipient; characterized in that said generating (120) comprises; acquiring authentication logic for verification of the identity of the recipient, the author or the distributor of the XML executable, the author or distributor of an XML document associated with the XML executable, or the resources that consume or use the XML executable; acquiring policy logic to conditionally enforce policy restrictions on how, when, and if various components and content of the original XML document are subsequently populated to the data structure for a particular recipient; embedding (130) within the executable said authentication logic and said policy logic; and in that said processing (220) the executable comprises; selectively determining the particular components and content that is to be loaded to the data structure within the machine or environment of the recipient by; conditionally populating at least some components and associated content to the data structure in response to satisfying policy limitations of the embedded policy logic; and enforcing identity-based restrictions and access rights to at least some components and associated content in the data structure in response to the embedded authentication logic." Independent claim 13 defines a computer system comprising corresponding means for performing each of the steps of the process of claim 1. Independent claim 20 defines "A computer program, which when executing on a computer or computer network, performs the method of any one of claims 1 to 12". VIII. The decision under appeal refers to two communications. The most recent communication of 19 January 2009 was issued in reaction to the last set of claims submitted on 17 December 2008 and maintained in appeal. According to the opinion of the Examining Division conveyed in that communication, the subject-matter of independent claims 1, 13 and 20 extended beyond the content of the application as filed and did not involve an inventive step. In the view of the Examining Division the following features of independent claim 1, and analogous features of independent claims 13 and 20, could not be directly and unambiguously derived from the application as filed: (a) "acquiring authentication logic", (b) verification of the identity of "the author or the distributor of the XML executable", (c) "acquiring policy logic", (d) embedding within the executable "said authentication logic and said policy logic", and (e) enforcing "access rights to at least some components". In the view of the Examining Division the independent claims broadly defined some features concerning generating the executable and acquiring and embedding the authentication and policy logic in terms of their function. The description did not seem to provide more detailed technical descriptions of the implementation of those features. This was allowed under Article 83 EPC only if said features were known and their implementation considered trivial. In the present case the Examining Division considered those features trivial and their functional definition allowable. Prior art document D1 disclosed a computer-implemented method comprising the steps of parsing an XML document, generating an executable and processing it, as in the invention. The claimed method differed from that prior art in that it also included the features related to including the authentication and policy logic within the executable and enforcing the respective restrictions and access rights. The wish to control access to components of the encoded XML document was considered to be a user requirement. The technical problem to be solved resided in the implementation of the authentication and policy logic. However, this was considered to be trivial, taking into account the common knowledge of the skilled person. Document D2 described an example of such general knowledge of marking and limiting access to components of XML documents, as well as encrypting parts of XML documents for a client. Thus the concept of a logic for decoding/hiding parts of XML documents for/from a user on a client was known. The same reasoning applied to corresponding independent claims 13 and 20. IX. The arguments of the appellant can be summarised as follows: The features considered to be added features by the Examining Division were disclosed in the application as filed in paragraphs [0030] and [0031] in connection with paragraph [0042] (feature (a)), paragraph [0016] (feature (b)), paragraph [0032] (feature (c)), paragraphs [0031] and [0032] (feature (d)), and paragraph [0026] (feature (e)). The Examining Division had concluded very early on in the examination procedure that key features of the invention were "considered to be known and trivial". This was based on the reasoning that the features were broadly defined in terms of their function and that, therefore, they either infringed Article 83 EPC or were trivial. However, the Examining Division had not cited any document to demonstrate lack of novelty. This had undoubtedly been a bias in the further examination of the application, which prejudiced the applicant. Regarding inventive step, the appellant argued that the whole invention rested on embedding authentication logic and policy logic into the executable. The embedding constituted the implementation and was not trivial. Neither of the prior art documents D1 or D2 disclosed embedding authentication and policy logic. Document D1 did not describe dynamic evaluation of conditions either. While document D2 addressed access controls, and "policy logic" for deciding which portions of a document could be made available to a particular user, these controls were external to the executable.