--- PAGE 1 ---
Main Request

CLAIMS

1. A computer-implemented method, comprising:
parsing (110) an extensible markup language (XML) document to acquire components of
the document and content associated with each of the components;
generating (120) an executable, which when subsequently executed by a machine
reproduces the original XML document’s hierarchy of components and content as a data structure
that is accessible within memory of that machine;
receiving (210) the executable at a recipients machine;
processing (220) the executable by the machine to produce a loaded version of components
and content associated with the document, which is mapped to a data structure for subsequent use
by XML-enabled applications to render the XML document within the machine or environment of
the recipient;
characterized in that said generating (120) comprises;
acquiring authentication logic for verification of the identity of the recipient,
the author or the distributor of the XML executable, the author or distributor of an
XML document associated with the XML executable, or the resources that consume
or use the XML executable;
acquiring policy logic to conditionally enforce policy restrictions on how,
when, and if various components and content of the original XML document are
subsequently populated to the data structure for a particular recipient;
embedding (130) within the executable said authentication logic and said
policy logic;
and in that said processing (220) the executable comprises;
selectively determining the particular components and content that is to be
loaded to the data structure within the machine or environment of the recipient by;
conditionally populating at least some components and associated
content to the data structure in response to satisfying policy limitations of the
embedded policy logic; and
enforcing identity-based restrictions and access rights to at least some
components and associated content in the data structure in response to the

embedded authentication logic.

16

--- PAGE 2 ---
2. The method of claim 1, further comprising, ensuring (140) that embedded references to

objects within the XML document use a common XML interface when generating the executable.

3. The method of claim 1, further comprising, identifying (150) common logic for some
portions of the XML document that is common with other portions of other XML documents and
separating out the common logic as a common library and replacing the common logic within the

executable with references to the common library.

4. The method of claim 1, further comprising, identifying (160) embedded references within
the XML document to external documents and creating retrieval logic within the executable to
dynamically acquire the external documents when the executable is subsequently executed by the

machine.

5. The method of claim 4, further comprising, using (161) the authentication logic or the policy

logic with the retrieval logic to conditionally and dynamically acquire the external documents.

6. The method of claim 1, wherein generating (120) further includes generating (121) the
executable so that when executed by the machine each component and its content are loaded into

the memory in a Document Object Model (DOM) format.

7. The method of claim 1, wherein generating (120) further includes producing (122) the
executable in one of the following formats: a machine language code format, a byte-code format,

and a common language infrastructure (CLI) code format.

8. The method of claim 1, further comprising, processing (240) one or more of the following as

the XML-enabled applications; a formatting template and a processing application.

9. The method of claim 1, further comprising, prompting a user (270) in response to processing
the authentication logic to provide authentication credentials and using the user-supplied
authentication credentials to authenticate the user for dynamic content that is acquired and that is

integrated into the data structure once the user is authenticated.

10. The method of claim 1, wherein receiving (210) further includes recognizing (250) the

executable as one of the following data formats: machine code format, byte code format, or

17

--- PAGE 3 ---
common language interface code format in order for an interpreter service to be selected to process

the executable.

11. The method of claim 1, further comprising, dynamically enforcing (280) policy in response
to processing the policy logic, wherein at least some content associated with the data structure is
conditionally represented or loaded to the data structure when the policy is determined to be

satisfied.

12. The method of claim 1, further comprising, determining (230) that the XML-enabled
applications can be processed without the assistance of an XML parser once the loaded version is

populated in the data structure.

13. | A computer system (300), comprising:
a parser (301) for parsing (110) an extensible markup language (XML) document to acquire
components of the document and content associated with each of the components;
an extensible markup language (XML) compiler (302) for generating (120) an executable,
which when subsequently executed by a machine reproduces the original XML document’s
hierarchy of components and content as a data structure that is accessible within memory of that
machine;
a machine for receiving (210) the executable, and
a processor for processing (220) the executable to produce a loaded version of components
and content associated with the document, which is mapped to a data structure for subsequent use
by XML-enabled applications to render the XML document within the machine or environment of a
recipients machine;
characterized in that said compiler (302) comprises;
means for acquiring authentication logic for verification of the identity of the
recipient, the author or the distributor of the XML executable, the author or
distributor of an XML document associated with the XML executable, or the
resources that consume or use the XML executable;
means for acquiring policy logic to conditionally enforce policy restrictions
on how, when, and if various components and content of the original XML
document are subsequently populated to the data structure for a particular recipient;
means for embedding (130) within the executable said authentication logic
and said policy logic;

and in that said processor comprises;

18

--- PAGE 4 ---
means for selectively determining the particular components and content that
is to be loaded to the data structure within the machine or environment of the
recipient by;
conditionally populating at least some components and associated
content to the data structure in response to satisfying policy limitations of the
embedded policy logic; and
enforcing identity-based restrictions and access rights to at least some
components and associated content in the data structure in response to the

embedded authentication logic.

14. The system of claim 13, further comprising, a common library (303) to represent portions
of the executable that overlap within the executable or that overlap with other executables, wherein
the XML compiler (302) is adapted to bundle the common library with the executable or to insert

references to the common library within the portions of the executable.

15. The system of claim 13, wherein the executable is adapted to include retrieval logic that is
adapted to conditionally, dynamically, and externally acquire some of the components and content
within the data structure when the authentication logic or the policy logic is processed and satisfied

on the machine with the executable.

16. The system of claim 13, wherein the XML compiler (302) represents the executable in one
of the following data formats: a machine code format associated with the machine, a byte code
format, or a common language infrastructure (CLI) code format that is independent of an

architecture associated with the machine.

17. The system of claim 13, wherein the data structure is represented in a Document Object

Model (DOM) format.

18. The system of claim 13, wherein the parser (301) utilizes a schema definition for the XML
document to parse out the components and content and provide the components and content to the

XML compiler.

19. — The system of claim 13, wherein the XML compiler (302) is adapted to also link to other
executables to properly permit the machine to produce the data structure for the XML content when

the executable is to be subsequently processed on the machine.

19

--- PAGE 5 ---
20. | A computer program, which when executing on a computer or computer network, performs

the method of any one of claims 1 to 12.

21. | The computer program of claim 20, when stored on a computer readable medium.

20