The appeal is directed against the decision of the examining division, dated 16 September 2010, to refuse the application 05 750 094 for lack of inventive step over: D1   W.-T. Chang et al.: "Heterogeneous Simulation-Mixing Discrete-Event Models with Dataflow", Journal of VLSI Signal Processing, Kluwer Academic Publishers, vol. 15, no. 1-2, January 1997, pages 127-144, XP2365986, ISSN 922-5773. D2   J. Buck et al.: "Ptolemy: A Framework for Simulating and Prototyping Heterogeneous Systems", International Journal in Computer Simulation, Ablex Publishing Corp., Norwood/USA, vol. 4, January 1994, pages 155-182, XP614664, ISSN 1055-8470. D5   H. A. Andrade et al.: "Software Synthesis from Dataflow Models for G and LabVIEW**(TM)", conference "Signals, Systems  The following document was also used in the examination procedure: D3   US 2002/89538 A1, 11 July 2002. II. A notice of appeal was received on 24 September 2010. The appeal fee was received the same day. A statement of the grounds of appeal was received on 11 January 2011. Claim sets of a main and two auxiliary requests were filed. Oral proceedings were requested. III. In its summons to oral proceedings, the board gave reasons for its preliminary opinion that the independent claim of all requests lacked inventive step over D1. IV. In a letter dated 3 September 2015, the appellant filed a further, second auxiliary request. V. Oral proceedings were held on 8 October 2015. At their end, the board announced its decision. VI. The appellant requests that the decision be set aside and a patent be granted on the basis of the main request filed with the grounds of appeal (identical to the request filed on 28 May 2010 and subject to the decision), the first auxiliary request filed with the grounds of appeal, the second auxiliary request filed with letter of 3 September 2015, or the third auxiliary request filed with the grounds of appeal as the then second auxiliary request. The further text on file is: description pages 1-54 and drawing sheets 1-21 as originally filed. VII. Claim 1 of the main request reads: "1.  A memory medium that stores program instructions for creating a graphical program, wherein the program instructions are executable to perform: assembling (502, 602) a first plurality of graphical program elements in a graphical program in response to first input, wherein the assembled first plurality of graphical program elements comprise a plurality of interconnected graphical program elements, wherein the assembled first plurality of graphical program elements have a first model of computation, and wherein the first model of computation specifies a homogenous data flow model of computation; displaying (504, 604) a structure in the graphical program in response to second input, wherein the structure comprises an interior portion, wherein the structure indicates use of a second model of computation for graphical program elements comprised within the interior portion of the structure; and assembling (506, 606) a second plurality of graphical program elements within the interior portion of the structure in response to third input, wherein the assembled second plurality of graphical program elements comprised within the interior portion of the structure have the second model of computation and wherein the structure serves to demarcate between the first plurality of graphical program elements and the second plurality of graphical program elements; wherein the graphical program is executable to perform a function." VIII. Claim 1 of the first auxiliary request differs from the main request in that the last phrase starting with "wherein" is replaced by: "wherein the graphical program is executable to perform a function, and wherein the second plurality of graphical program elements is converted depending on the target platform for the program, wherein the target platform is specified by the user." IX. Claim 1 of the second auxiliary request differs from the first auxiliary request in that the following is added at the end: "wherein said conversion process is performed on only that portion of the graphical program that has the second model of computation." X. Claim 1 of the third auxiliary request reads (additions to the main request are in italics; deletions are [deleted: struck through]): "1.  A memory medium that stores program instructions for creating a graphical program, wherein the program instructions are executable to perform: assembling ([deleted: 502, ]602) a first plurality of graphical program elements in a graphical program in response to first input, wherein the assembled first plurality of graphical program elements comprise a plurality of interconnected graphical program elements, wherein the assembled first plurality of graphical program elements have a first model of computation, and wherein the first model of computation specifies a homogenous data flow model of computation; displaying ([deleted: 504, ]604) a structure in the graphical program in response to second input, wherein the structure comprises an interior portion, wherein the structure indicates use of a second model of computation for graphical program elements comprised within the interior portion of the structure; and assembling ([deleted: 506, ]606) a second plurality of graphical program elements within the interior portion of the structure in response to third input, wherein the assembled second plurality of graphical program elements comprised within the interior portion of the structure have the second model of computation and wherein the structure serves to demarcate between the first plurality of graphical program elements and the second plurality of graphical program elements; wherein the graphical program is executable to perform a function[deleted: .] and (608) wherein during compilation, the assembled second plurality of graphical program elements which operate in accordance with the second model of computation is converted or translated to graphical program elements that operate in accordance with the first model of computation, in order to be executed in accordance with the first model of computation."