TITLE:
Optical modulator

TYPE:
Japanese patent

ABSTRACT:
PURPOSE:To prevent shortening of a transmission distance of an optical fiber from being caused by fetching a radiation light radiated from an optical multiplexing point of a branch optical waveguide as a monitor light, detecting a shift of an operating point by a photodetector and a signal processing control circuit and bringing it to feedback to an input signal power source. CONSTITUTION:A radiation light radiated from an optical multiplexing point 43 of a branch optical waveguide 4a and 4b in the case an operating point is shifted is fetched as a monitor light, the shift of the operating point is detected by a photodetector 12 and a signal processing control circuit part 8 and it is brought to feedback to an input signal power source 13, adjustment of a DC bias is executed, and it is always held in a correct operating point. For instance, a signal light emitted from an optical fiber 4 is led into a signal light optical fiber 5, and a radiation light radiated from the optical multiplexing point 43 of the branch optical waveguide 4a and 4b is led into a monitor light optical fiber 6 and converted to an electric signal, and brought to feedback so as to stabilize the operating point by adjusting the DC bias of the input signal power source. By this method, such a problem as causes shortening of a transmission distance of the optical fiber is not generated without exerting any influence on optical power of the signal light.

CLAIMS:
[Scope of Claims] A substrate (1) having an electro-optic effect processed into a flat surface, and a branched light guide formed on the substrate (1) between a light input end (40) and a light output end (41). Wave paths (4a) and (4
b), and a signal electrode (2) provided on the branched optical waveguide (4a).
), and a ground electrode (3) provided on the branch optical waveguide (4b).
), an optical fiber for signal light (5) arranged so that the signal light is introduced in close proximity to the light output end (41) of the optical waveguide (4), the branch optical waveguide (4a), and (4b) combining point (4
3) a monitor light optical fiber (6) arranged so as to introduce the synchrotron radiation emitted from the monitor light optical fiber (6); A photodetector (12) that receives light; and in response to changes in the output electrical signal of the photodetector (12),
Optical modulation characterized by comprising at least a signal processing/control circuit section (8) that controls the operating point of the optical modulator by changing the DC bias of the input signal voltage applied to the signal electrode (2). vessel.

TITLE:
Optical waveguide element

TYPE:
Japanese Patent

ABSTRACT:
PURPOSE: To improve a yield and to reduce a cost with a simple structure. CONSTITUTION: This optical waveguide element 10 has optical waveguides 12, 14A, 14B, 17 capable of propagating light waves, properly selects output light 18 propagated in these optical waveguides and used for subsequent processing after emission outside from an exit end face 11A and leaking light 19 leaked outside the optical waveguides in a substrate 11 and emitted outside from the exit end face 11A at the position where is off the optical waveguides and emits the light outside from the exit end face 11A. The exit position of the output light 18 at the exit end face 11A and the exit position of the leaking light 19 are parted to the extent that the respective light waves do not affect each other. The optical waveguides are formed by bending the optical waveguides between the leaking out part of the leaking light 19 and the exit end face 11A for the purpose described above and the optical axes of the optical waveguides in the leaking part of the leaking light 19 are misaligned.

CLAIMS:
[Claims] 1. An output light having an optical waveguide capable of propagating a light wave, propagating in the optical waveguide, emitted from an emitting end face to the outside, and used for subsequent processing, and leaking out to the outside of the optical waveguide. In an optical waveguide element that appropriately selects leaked light to be emitted to the outside from the emission end face at a position deviated from the optical waveguide and emits the light to the outside from the emission end face, the emission position of the output light and the emission position of the leakage light at the emission end face The optical waveguide element is characterized in that and are separated from each other to such an extent that the respective light waves do not affect each other. 2. The optical waveguide element according to claim 1, wherein a portion of the optical waveguide between the leakage light leakage portion and the emission end face is bent and molded, and the output light and the leakage light influence each other. An optical waveguide device characterized in that they are separated to a certain extent. 3. The optical waveguide element according to claim 1, wherein the optical axis of the optical waveguide in the leaked light leak portion is shifted.
The leaked light that leaks out of the optical waveguide from the leaked portion and is emitted to the outside from the emission end face is separated from the output light that propagates in the optical waveguide and is emitted to the outside from the emission end face. An optical waveguide device characterized by: