The applicant (appellant) appealed against the decision of the Examining Division refusing European patent application No. 04014443.8. II. The Examining Division decided that the subject-matter of claim 1 of both a main request and an auxiliary request lacked inventive step in view of the following documents: D1:  US-B1-6 172 596; and D2:  US-B1-6 400 272. III. With the statement of grounds of appeal, the appellant filed a main request and first to fourth auxiliary requests. The main request corresponded to the main request considered in the decision under appeal. IV. In a communication accompanying a summons to oral proceedings, the Board expressed the provisional opinion that the subject-matter of claim 1 of each request either was not new or lacked inventive step in view of document D1. V. With a letter dated 27 January 2015, the appellant replaced its substantive requests with a new main request and new first to third auxiliary requests. VI. With a letter dated 19 March 2015, the appellant informed the Board that it would not attend the oral proceedings. VII. Oral proceedings were held on 23 March 2015 in the absence of the appellant. At the end of the oral proceedings, the chairman pronounced the Board's decision. VIII. The appellant requested that the decision under appeal be set aside and that a patent be granted on the basis of the claims of the main request or, in the alternative, on the basis of the claims of one of the first to third auxiliary requests. IX. Claim 1 of the main request reads as follows: "A computer-implemented method for mapping data between a wirelessly accessible data carrier, and a database application using a mapping interface, comprising: - exchanging messages compliant to a data carrier query protocol with the data carrier via a wireless interface; - exchanging queries compliant to a database query protocol with a database application via a database interface, the database query protocol being a structured query language (SQL) protocol; - reading a mapping definition; - exchanging data between the wireless interface and the database interface by mapping between the queries and the messages within the mapping interface using the mapping definition; and, - storing the mapping definition separately from the mapping interface thus providing separation between the mapping interface and the mapping definition, wherein said exchanging data between the wireless interface and the database interface including [sic]: providing the data of a data carrier to the database interface formatted as database data; providing data of the data carrier as one row of a database to the database interface; and providing a defined byte area of the data carrier as one column of a respective row to the database interface." X. Claim 1 of the first auxiliary request differs from claim 1 of the main request in the addition of the following text at the end of the claim: ", and wherein the mapping definition is stored within the data carrier and wherein the mapping definition is read from the data carrier." XI. Claim 1 of the second auxiliary request differs from claim 1 of the main request in the addition of the following text at the end of the claim: "wherein the mapping definition is stored within the data carrier and wherein the mapping definition is read from the data carrier, and wherein the mapping definition defines how to map messages between the data carrier query protocol and the database query protocol." XII. Claim 1 of the third auxiliary request differs from claim 1 of the main request in the addition of the following text at the end of the claim: "wherein the mapping definition is stored within the data carrier and wherein the mapping definition is read from the data carrier, wherein the mapping definition defines how to map messages between the data carrier query protocol and the database query protocol, and wherein the mapping definition provides mapping information for mapping certain data blocks with the data carrier onto application fields within the database application."