--- PAGE 1 ---
10

15

20

25

14 Mulier-Boré

Application No.: 04 014 443.8-1225

Applicant: SAP SE

"Accessing Data Tags Using Database Queries"
Our Ref.: S$10415EU-ds/yma

Claims

(Main Request)

1. A computer-implemented method for mapping data between a wirelessly

accessible data carrier, and a database application using a mapping interface,

‘comprising:

- exchanging messages compliant to a data carrier query protocol with the
data carrier via a wireless interface;

- exchanging queries compliant to a database query protocol with a database
application via a database interface, the database query protocol being a structured
query language (SQL) protocol;

- reading a mapping definition;

- exchanging data between the wireless interface and the database interface
by mapping between the queries and the messages within the mapping. interface
using the mapping definition; and,

- storing the mapping definition separately from the mapping interface thus
providing separation between the mapping interface and the mapping definition,

wherein said exchanging data between the wireless interface ‘and the
database interface including: |

providing the data of a data carrier to the database interface formatted
as database data;

providing data of the data carrier as one row of a database to the
database interface; and

providing a defined byte area of the data carrier as one column of a

respective row to the database interface.

2. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, characterized by storing the

mapping definition within the data carrier.

--- PAGE 2 ---
10

15

20

25

30

24 . Muller-Boré

3. The computer-implemented method of claim 2, characterized by storing the

mapping definition in a separate memory area of the data carrier.

4. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, characterized by storing the

mapping definition in a file.

5. The computer-implemented method of claim 4, characterized by storing
various mapping definitions representing different types of data carriers within the

file.

6. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, characterized by providing

management of memory within the data carrier using the mapping definition.

7. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, characterized by defining un-

clustered memory areas for data within the data carrier.

8. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, characterized by.updating the
mapping definition and storing data within the data carrier from a previous format into

a new format according to the updated mapping definition.

9. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, characterized by dynamically

adapting memory usage of the data carrier using the mapping definition.

10.. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, characterized by storing the

mapping definition in the file in a device-independent format.

11. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, characterized by providing a
description of accessible data within the data carrier to an application via the

database interface. |

12. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, characterized by receiving a
database query protocol request from an application to determine a description of
accessible data via the database interface, obtaining the description of accessible —

data from the mapping definition, and providing the description of accessible data to

--- PAGE 3 ---
10

15

20

25

30

34 Mulier-Boré

the requesting application via the database interface.

13. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, characterized by receiving a
database query protocol request from an application to determine data from a data
carrier, mapping the database query protocol request onto a. data carrier query
protocol request, and providing the data carrier query protocol request to the wireless

interface to interrogate the data carrier.

14. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, characterized by receiving

data from a data carrier as data carrier query protocol message via the wireless

interface, mapping the data from the data carrier query protocol message into a

database query protocol message, and providing the data as a database query
protocol message to the database interface.

15. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, characterized by storing byte-

oriented data on the data carrier.

16. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, characterized by providing

field-oriented data to the database interface application.

17. . The computer-implemented method of claim 1, characterized by providing a
physical layer access interface for accessing the data carrier via the wireless

interface.

18. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, characterized by scanning

substantially permanently for availabie data carriers.

19. | The computer-implemented method of claim 1, characterized by providing
data of a data carrier via the database interface to an application, once a data carrier

is accessible.

20. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, characterized by scanning for
available data carriers upon receiving a request from an application via the database

interface.

--- PAGE 4 ---
10

15

20

25

30

44 . - Miiller-Boré

21. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, characterized by write-
protecting memory blocks within the data carrier, such that, by using database query |

protocol messages, memory areas within the data carrier are write-protectable.

22. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, characterized by implementing

the mapping definition in a device-independent format.

23. The computer-implemented method of claim 10 or 22, characterized by

. implementing the mapping between the data carrier query protocol and the database

query protocol within the mapping interface in a device-independent format.

24. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, characterized by writing data,

which is received via the database interface, to the data carrier.

25. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, characterized by providing

byte converting when mapping the data between the data carrier query protocol and

the database query protocol.

26. A computer system for mapping data between a wirelessly accessible data
carrier and a database application for implementing a method of any one of claims 1
to 25, comprising: |

- awirelessly accessible data carrier;

- a mapping device with a mapping interface, a wireless interface for
communicating with the data stored on the data carrier using a data carrier query
protocoi, and a database interface for communicating with a database application
using database query protocol; and,

| - a storage separated from said mapping interface for storing a mapping
definition separately from the mapping interface providing separation between

mapping interface and mapping definition.

27. A computer program product readable by a computer and embodying a

program of instructions capable of mapping data between a wirelessly accessible

data stored on a data carrier, and a database application using a mapping interface,

--- PAGE 5 ---
54 . Muller-Boré

the program comprising instructions operable to cause the computer to perform the

method according to any one of claims 1 to 25.