TITLE:
Photolithography Based Fabrication of 3D Structures

TYPE:
US Patent

ABSTRACT:
A method includes depositing a first photoresist layer having a first thickness above a substrate, defining a first opening in the first photoresist layer by exposing the first photoresist layer to radiation, the first opening having a first width. The method includes depositing a conformal passivation layer directly on the first photoresist layer, and depositing a second photoresist layer having a second thickness on the conformal passivation layer. The method includes defining a second opening in the second photoresist layer by exposing the second photoresist layer to radiation, the second opening having a second width greater than the first width, and depositing a metal layer above the first photoresist layer and the substrate to form an electrode, a dielectric layer being provided to contact the metal layer. The method includes removing the first photoresist layer and the second photoresist layer. The first photoresist layer can include a positive photoresist.

CLAIMS:
1. (canceled)
2. A method comprising:
depositing a first photoresist layer having a first thickness above a substrate;
defining a first opening in the first photoresist layer by exposing the first photoresist layer to radiation, the first opening having a first width;
depositing a conformal passivation layer directly on the first photoresist layer;
depositing a second photoresist layer having a second thickness on the conformal passivation layer;
defining a second opening in the second photoresist layer by exposing the second photoresist layer to radiation, the second opening having a second width greater than the first width;
depositing a conformal dielectric layer directly on the second photoresist layer and above the first photoresist layer;
depositing a metal layer above the first photoresist layer and the substrate to form an electrode, a dielectric layer being provided to contact the metal layer; and
removing the first photoresist layer and the second photoresist layer,
wherein the first photoresist layer comprises a positive photoresist, and wherein depositing the metal layer comprises depositing a metal layer directly on the conformal dielectric layer, and the conformal passivation layer comprises an inorganic oxide.
3. The method of claim 2, wherein depositing the conformal dielectric layer comprises depositing the conformal dielectric layer directly on the second photoresist layer and directly on the conformal passivation layer.
4. The method of claim 2, wherein the conformal dielectric layer comprises HfO2.
5. The method of claim 4, wherein the conformal passivation layer comprises Al2O3.
6. The method of claim 2, further comprises etching away a portion of the conformal passivation layer not covered by the second photoresist prior to depositing the conformal dielectric layer directly on the second photoresist layer.
7. The method of claim 2, further comprising, before depositing the conformal passivation layer, baking the first photoresist at a temperature higher than a threshold temperature to reflow the first photoresist and reduce a dimension of the first opening.
8. The method of claim 2, further comprising applying a chemical shrink formulation to reduce a dimension of the first opening before depositing the conformal passivation layer.
9. The method of claim 2, wherein a thickness of the conformal dielectric layer is controlled using atomic layer deposition.
10. The method of claim 9, wherein the conformal dielectric layer is deposited below a threshold temperature to reduce or prevent reflow of the photoresists.
11. The method of claim 2, wherein the substrate has a nanomaterial layer deposited thereon, and depositing the first photoresist layer comprises depositing the first photoresist layer on at least a portion of the nanomaterial layer.
12. The method of claim 11, further comprising depositing the nanomaterial layer on the substrate prior to depositing the first photoresist layer.
13. The method of claim 11, where in the nanomaterial layer comprises single wall carbon nanotubes (SWNT).
14. The method of claim 11, further comprising forming a self-aligned source electrode and a self-aligned drain electrode on the nanomaterial layer by using the electrode formed by the deposited metal layer as a shadow mask, wherein a first volume defined by the first opening is contiguous to a second volume defined by the second opening, and a shape of the electrode formed by the deposited metal layer is based collectively on the first volume and second volume.
15. The method of claim 2, wherein the second photoresist layer comprises a positive resist material and the conformal passivation layer prevents the first photoresist layer from being modified when the second opening is defined in the second photoresist layer.
16. The method of claim 2, wherein defining the second opening in the second photoresist layer comprises exposing and developing the second photoresist.
17. The method of claim 2, wherein the metal layer comprises Ti.
18. The method of claim 2, wherein the metal layer comprises Au.
19. The method of claim 2, wherein the first opening is between 100 to 500 nm and the second photoresist layer has a thickness that reduces deposition of metal on a sidewall of the second photoresist layer contiguous to the second opening.
20. A field-effect transistor comprising:
a silicon substrate;
a layer of nanomaterial disposed on the silicon substrate;
a passivation layer disposed on the layer of nanomaterial using atomic layer deposition;
a gate electrode disposed above the layer of nanomaterial, the gate electrode having a foot portion, and a head portion directly connected to the foot portion, the gate electrode being in contact with a dielectric material; and
a source electrode and a drain electrode disposed on the layer of nanomaterial,
wherein a width of the foot portion is determined by a width of a first opening in a first photoresist, and a dimension of the head portion is determined by a width of a second opening in a second photoresist, wherein a thickness of the passivation layer is between 1 nm and 5 nm.
21. The field-effect transistor of claim 20, wherein the dielectric material comprises a layer of dielectric material disposed on the passivation layer.
22. The field-effect transistor of claim 21, wherein the layer of dielectric material being in contact with the gate electrode is disposed on the passivation layer.
23. The field-effect transistor of claim 20, wherein the head portion of the gate electrode serves as a shadow mask for the source electrode and drain electrode to be self-aligned.
24. The field-effect transistor of claim 20, wherein the dielectric material comprises a layer of dielectric material separate and different from a material of the passivation layer.
25. The field-effect transistor of claim 23, wherein the dielectric material comprises HfO2 and the passivation layer comprises Al2O3.
26. The field-effect transistor of claim 20, wherein a length of the foot portion is between 100 nm and 500 nm.
27. The field-effect transistor of claim 20, wherein the dielectric material comprises an oxide different from an oxide of the gate electrode.
28. The field-effect transistor of claim 20, wherein the gate electrode comprises Ti.
29. The field-effect transistor of claim 20, wherein the gate electrode comprises Au.