The applicant (appellant) appealed against the decision of the Examining Division refusing European patent application No. 00921559.1. II. The Examining Division decided that the subject-matter of the independent claims of a main request lacked inventive step in view of common prior-art multimedia devices such as a VCR and the common general knowledge of the skilled person in the field of multimedia devices, and that the independent claims of an auxiliary request were unclear. III. With the notice of appeal, the appellant maintained the main request considered in the decision under appeal. IV. In a communication accompanying a summons to oral proceedings, the Board expressed the provisional opinion that the subject-matter of claim 1 lacked inventive step. It drew attention to the following document, which the appellant had submitted to the United States Patent and Trademark Office in the proceedings for the related patent application with the publication number US 2009/136203: D4:  JP H6-245182, published 2 September 1994. Attached to document D4 was an English translation. V. With a letter dated 20 April 2015, the appellant submitted a clean copy of the claims of the main request together with three sets of claims according to first, second and third auxiliary requests. The letter indicated that detailed arguments regarding the merits of the main request and the auxiliary requests would be presented within the next few days. VI. With a letter dated 4 May 2015, the appellant submitted arguments, filed a new first auxiliary request and maintained the three auxiliary requests filed with the letter of 20 April 2015 as second, third and fourth auxiliary requests. VII. In the course of oral proceedings held on 20 May 2015, the appellant withdrew the second, third and fourth auxiliary requests and filed a new second auxiliary request. At the end of the proceedings, the chairman pronounced the Board's decision. VIII. The appellant requested that the decision under appeal be set aside and that a patent be granted on the basis of the claims of the main request or, in the alternative, on the basis of the claims of one of the first and second auxiliary requests. IX. Claim 1 of the main request reads as follows: "A process for automatically correcting the playback position within an audio or video program's material after a user terminates a fast forward or reverse progression through the program material, comprising the steps of: receiving a first user command input; playing the program material in fast forward mode or reverse mode in response to the first user command; terminating the fast forward or reverse progression through the program material based on a second user command; detecting by a media controller a current frame position in said program material where said termination occurred; calculating a new frame position by adding a positional offset to said current frame position when reverse mode has been terminated or subtracting a positional offset from said current frame position when fast forward mode has been terminated, the positional offset being dependent upon the speed of the reverse mode or fast forward mode being terminated, to compensate for a user's reaction time when stopping the forward or reverse progression through the audio or video program; and playing, by said media controller, the program material starting at said new frame position." X. Claim 1 of the first auxiliary request differs from claim 1 of the main request in the insertion of the following text after the words "playing the program ... user command": ", wherein multiple speed fast forward or reverse modes are available" XI. Claim 1 of the second auxiliary request differs from claim 1 of the main request in the insertion of the following text after the words "A process ... through the program material,": "wherein the program material is stored on a hard disk of a system performing said process, said process"