--- PAGE 1 ---
TiVo, Inc. 00 921 559.1 /1 183 689

C15395EP (60097-0158) April 20, 2015
Main Request
(Clean Copy)
CLAIMS
1. A process for automatically correcting the playback position within an audio or

video program's material after a user terminates a fast forward or reverse progression
through the program material, comprising the steps of:

receiving a first user command input;

playing the program material in fast forward mode or reverse mode in response to
the first user command;

terminating the fast forward or reverse progression through the program material
based on a second user command;

detecting by a media controller a current frame position in said program material
where said termination occurred;

calculating a new frame position by adding a positional offset to said current
frame position when reverse mode has been terminated or subtracting a positional offset
from said current frame position when fast forward mode has been terminated, the
positional offset being dependent upon the speed of the reverse mode or fast forward
mode being terminated, to compensate for a user's reaction time when stopping the
forward or reverse progression through the audio or video program; and

playing, by said media controller, the program material starting at said new frame

position.

2. The process of claim 1, wherein said positional offset is determined by observing
how much the user makes positional corrections by issuing reverse or fast forward
commands after the user terminates the fast forward or reverse progression, upon
observing the user continuing to make the positional corrections, setting said positional
offset to a factor using the observed user's positional corrections, the factor calculated for

each speed of reverse mode or fast forward mode.

--- PAGE 2 ---
TiVo, Inc. 00 921 559.1 /1 183 689

C15395EP (60097-0158) April 20, 2015
Main Request
(Clean Copy)

3. The process of claim 1, wherein said positional offset is adjusted when the user

continues to make corrections by issuing reverse or fast forward commands.

4. The process of claim 1, wherein said positional offset is calculated by using data
from a testing of the user's reaction time using a test video where the user initiates and
then terminates the fast forward or reverse mode while the test video is playing, the user
then positions the video to the position that he expected the termination to occur, the
difference between the termination point and the expected point is the value used for the

calculation of the positional offset.

5. The process of claim 1, wherein said positional offset is calculated using a
sensitivity setting that is selected by the user, a multiple of the sensitivity setting being

used depending upon fast forward mode or reverse mode used.

6. An apparatus for automatically correcting the playback position within an audio
or video program's material after a user terminates a fast forward or reverse progression
through the program material, comprising:

a media controller;

a module for receiving a first user command input;

a module for playing the program material in fast forward mode or reverse mode
in response to the first user command;

a module for terminating the fast forward or reverse progression through the
program material based on a second user command;

wherein said media controller detects a current frame position in said program
material where said termination occurred;

a module for calculating a new frame position by adding a positional offset to said
current frame position when reverse mode has been terminated or subtracting a positional
offset from said current frame position when fast forward mode has been terminated, the

positional offset being dependent upon the speed of the reverse mode or fast forward

--- PAGE 3 ---
TiVo, Inc. 00 921 559.1 /1 183 689
C15395EP (60097-0158) April 20, 2015

Main Request
(Clean Copy)

mode being terminated, to compensate for a user's reaction time when stopping the
forward or reverse progression through the audio or video program; and
a module for playing, by said media controller, the program material starting at

said new frame position.

7. The apparatus of claim 6, wherein said positional offset is determined by
observing the amount that the user makes positional corrections by issuing reverse or fast
forward commands after the user terminates the fast forward or reverse progression, upon
observing the user continuing to make the positional corrections, setting said positional
offset to a factor using the observed user's positional corrections, the factor calculated for

each speed of reverse mode or fast forward mode.

8. The apparatus of claim 6, wherein said positional offset is adjusted when the user

continues to make corrections by issuing reverse or fast forward commands.

9. The apparatus of claim 6, wherein said positional offset is calculated by using data
from a testing of the user's reaction time via a test video where the user initiates and then
terminates the fast forward or reverse mode while the test video is playing, the user then
positions the video to the position that he expected the termination to occur, the difference
between the termination point and the expected point is the value used for the calculation

of the positional offset.

10. The apparatus of claim 6, wherein said positional offset is calculated using a
sensitivity setting that is selected by the user, a multiple of the sensitivity setting being

used depending upon fast forward mode or reverse mode used.