--- PAGE 1 ---
07 859 556.8 01480550EPBEH/MKR 16.12.2014

WE CLAIM:

1. A redundant switching system for a near end of an IMA virtual link, the
redundant switching system comprising:

a working network element (110, 120) for hosting a working IMA state
machine (112, 122) participating in the IMA virtual link (305);

a protection network element (110, 120) for hosting a protection IMA
state machine (112, 122) for participation in the IMA virtual link (305) in an
event of a redundant switchover; and
characterized by

an IMA synchronization link (111) coupling said working network
element to said protection network element for communicating state
information pertaining to said working IMA state machine to said protection

IMA state machine.

2. A redundant switching system according to claim | further comprising:

an IMA reception splitter for duplicating an IMA data stream incoming
over said IMA virtual link from a far end of said IMA virtual link, said IMA
reception splitter for delivering a copy of said IMA data stream to both the
working IMA state machine and the protection IMA state machine; and

an ATM reception splitter for duplicating an ATM data stream destined
for transmission over said IMA virtual link to said far end of said IMA virtual
link, said ATM reception splitter for delivering a copy of said ATM data stream
to both the working IMA state machine and the protection IMA state machine.

3. A redundant switching system according to claim 2 wherein said
protection IMA state machine and the working IMA state machine have pre-

configured matching Link IDs, IMA Group IDs, and ICP cell offsets.

--- PAGE 2 ---
4, A redundant switching system according to claim 2 wherein Link IDs, an
IMA Group ID, and ICP cell offsets of said working IMA state machine are
transmitted to said protection IMA state machine over said IMA
synchronization link.

5. A redundant switching system according to claim 2 wherein an SCCI
number of the working IMA state machine is transmitted to the protection IMA
state machine over the IMA synchronization link.

6. A redundant switching system according to claim 5 wherein a frame
sequence number delta is transmitted from said working IMA state machine to
said protection IMA state machine over said IMA synchronization link, said
frame sequence number delta for use by said protection IMA state machine to
determine a frame sequence number to use to communicate over the IMA
virtual link with the far end of the IMA virtual link after a redundant
switchover.

7. A redundant switching system according to claim 6 wherein the frame
sequence number delta is determined by subtracting from a first frame
sequence number of a frame generated by the working IMA state machine at a
first specific time, a second frame sequence number of a frame arriving from a
far end IMA state machine of the far end of the IMA virtual link at the first
specific time, and wherein the protection IMA state machine uses said frame
sequence number delta by adding said frame sequence number delta to a third
frame sequence number of a frame arriving at the protection IMA state machine
from said far end IMA state machine.

8. A redundant switching system according to claim 2 wherein said

protection IMA state machine is adapted to, upon a startup of said protection
IMA state machine, enter into a working state upon receipt of an ICP cell in the

IMA data stream from the a far end IMA state machine at the far end of the

--- PAGE 3 ---
3

IMA virtual link wherein the ICP cell indicates that the far end IMA state
machine is in a working state.
9. A redundant switching system according to claim 5 wherein said SSCI
number is transmitted from said working IMA state machine to said protection
IMA state machine upon a startup of said protection IMA state machine.
10. A redundant switching system according to claim 9 wherein said SCCI
number is retransmitted from said working IMA state machine to said
protection IMA state machine each time the value of said SCCI number
changes.
11. A redundant switching system according to claim 9 wherein said SCCI
number is retransmitted from said working IMA state machine to said
protection IMA state machine on a periodic basis.
12. A redundant switching system according to claim 6 wherein said frame
sequence number delta is transmitted from said working IMA state machine to
said protection IMA state machine upon a startup of said protection IMA state
machine.
13. A redundant switching system according to claim 12 wherein said frame
sequence number delta is retransmitted from said working IMA state machine
to said protection IMA state machine each time an average value of said frame
sequence number delta changes.
14. A redundant switching system according to claim 3 wherein:

an SCCI number of the working IMA state machine is transmitted to the
protection IMA state machine over the IMA synchronization link;

a frame sequence number delta is transmitted from said working IMA
state machine to said protection IMA state machine over said IMA

synchronization link, wherein the frame sequence number delta is determined

--- PAGE 4 ---
4

by subtracting from a first frame sequence number of a frame generated by the
working IMA state machine at a first specific time, a second frame sequence
number of a frame arriving from a far end IMA state machine of the far end of
the IMA virtual link at the first specific time; and

said frame sequence number delta is used by said protection IMA state
machine by adding said frame sequence number delta to a third frame sequence
number of a frame arriving at the protection IMA state machine from said far
end IMA state machine to generate a fourth frame sequence number, said fourth
frame sequence number for use by said protection IMA state machine to
participate in said IMA virtual link after the event of a redundant switchover;
wherein said protection IMA state machine is adapted to, upon a startup of said
protection IMA state machine, enter into a working state upon receipt of an ICP
cell in the IMA data stream from the far end IMA state machine wherein the
ICP cell indicates that the far end IMA state machine is in a working state.
15. A redundant switching system according to claim 14 wherein an APS
redundant pair of I/O cards is coupled between the near end and the far end of
the IMA virtual link for providing port redundancy protection.
16. A redundant switching system according to claim 15 further comprising:
an IMA transmission splitter for duplicating an output IMA data stream
from the working IMA state machine destined for the far end of said IMA
virtual link, said IMA transmission splitter for delivering a copy of said output
IMA data stream to both a working I/O card and a protection I/O card of said
redundant pair of I/O cards;
an IMA reception combiner having a first input coupled to said working
I/O card and a second input coupled to said protection I/O card, and an output

coupled to said IMA reception splitter; and

--- PAGE 5 ---
5

an IMA switch coupled to the first I/O card and coupled to the second

1/O card for coupling of said IMA virtual link to one of said first I/O card and

said second I/O card.

17. A method of redundant switching for a near end of an IMA virtual link,
wherein a working network element is for hosting a working IMA state
machine and a protection network element is for hosting a protection
IMA state machine,

the method comprising:
switching over participation in the IMA virtual link (305) from said

working IMA state machine to said protection IMA state machine

characterized by
synchronizing, by means of an IMA synchronization link (111) coupling
said networking element to said protection network element for

communicating state information pertaining to said working IMA state machine

to said protection IMA state machine, the protection IMA state machine (120,

122) for participation in the IMA virtual link with the working IMA state

machine (110, 112) already participating in the IMA virtual link; and
wherein switching over occurs after the protection IMA state machine is

synchronized with the working IMA state machine.

18. A method of redundant switching according to claim 17 wherein the step

of synchronizing further comprises:
transmitting from said working IMA state machine, state information

pertaining to said working IMA state machine to said protection IMA state
machine.

19. A method of redundant switching according to claim 18 further

comprising:
duplicating an IMA data stream incoming over said IMA virtual link

from a far end of said IMA virtual link;

--- PAGE 6 ---
delivering a copy of said IMA data stream to both the working IMA state
machine and the protection IMA state machine;

duplicating an ATM data stream destined for transmission over said
IMA virtual link to a far end of said IMA virtual link; and

delivering a copy of said ATM data stream to both the working IMA
state machine and the protection IMA state machine.
20. A method of redundant switching according to claim 19 wherein said
protection IMA state machine and the working IMA state machine have pre-
configured matching Link IDs, IMA Group IDs, and ICP cell offsets.
21. A method of redundant switching according to claim 19 wherein, the
state information pertaining to said working IMA state machine comprises Link
IDs, an IMA Group ID and ICP cell offsets of said working IMA state machine.
22. A method of redundant switching according to claim 18 wherein, the
state information pertaining to said working IMA state machine comprises an
SCCI number of the working IMA state machine.
23. A method of redundant switching according to claim 22 wherein, the
state information pertaining to said working IMA state machine comprises a
frame sequence number delta, said frame sequence number delta for use by said
protection IMA state machine to determine a frame sequence number to use to
communicate over the IMA virtual link with the far end of the IMA virtual link.
24. A method of redundant switching according to claim 23 further
comprising the step of:
determining the frame sequence number delta by subtracting from a first
frame sequence number of a frame generated by the working IMA state

machine at a first specific time, a second frame sequence number of a frame

--- PAGE 7 ---
arriving from a far end IMA state machine of the far end of the IMA virtual link
at the first specific time; and
determining at the protection IMA state machine, a fourth frame
sequence number by adding said frame sequence number delta to a third frame
sequence number of a frame arriving at the protection IMA state machine from
said far end IMA state machine, said fourth frame sequence number for use by
said protection IMA state machine to participate in said IMA virtual link after
the event of a redundant switchover.
25. A method of redundant switching according to claim 18 further
comprising:

entering said protection IMA state machine into a working state upon
startup of the protection IMA state machine and upon receipt of an ICP cell in
the IMA data stream from the a far end IMA state machine at the far end of the
IMA virtual link wherein the ICP cell indicates that the far end IMA state
machine is in a working state.
26. A method of redundant switching according to claim 22 further
comprising:
transmitting said SSCI number is from said working IMA state machine
to said protection IMA state machine upon a startup of said protection IMA
state machine.
27. A method of redundant switching according to claim 26 further
comprising:
retransmitting said SCCI number is from said working IMA state
machine to said protection IMA state machine each time the value of said SCCI

number changes.

--- PAGE 8 ---
28. A method of redundant switching according to claim 26 further
comprising:

retransmitting said SCCI number is from said working IMA state
machine to said protection IMA state machine on a periodic basis.
29. A method of redundant switching according to claim 23 further
comprising:

transmitting said frame sequence number delta is from said working
IMA state machine to said protection IMA state machine upon a startup of said
protection IMA state machine.
30. A method of redundant switching according to claim 28 further
comprising: retransmitting said frame sequence number delta from said
working IMA state machine to said protection IMA state machine each time an
average value of said frame sequence number delta changes.
31. A method of redundant switching according to claim 21 wherein the
state information pertaining to said working IMA state machine comprises an
SCCI number of the working IMA state machine and a frame sequence number
delta, the method further comprising the steps of:

determining the frame sequence number delta by subtracting from a first
frame sequence number of a frame generated by the working IMA state
machine at a first specific time, a second frame sequence number of a frame
arriving from a far end IMA state machine of the far end of the IMA virtual link
at the first specific time;

determining at the protection IMA state machine, a fourth frame
sequence number by adding said frame sequence number delta to a third frame

sequence number of a frame arriving at the protection IMA state machine from

--- PAGE 9 ---
9
said far end IMA state machine, said fourth frame sequence number for use by
said protection IMA state machine to participate in said IMA virtual link after
the event of a redundant switchover; and
entering said protection IMA state machine into a working state upon
startup of the protection IMA state machine and upon receipt of an ICP cell in
the IMA data stream from the far end IMA state machine wherein the ICP cell

indicates that the far end IMA state machine is in a working state.