--- PAGE 1 ---
10

15

20

25

30

-38-

CLAIMS
1. A subsystem (110) comprising a switching element (100) and a forwarding
database memory (140),
wherein the switching element comprises a switch fabric (210) and a plurality of
input ports (205, 215, 225),
wherein the switch fabric comprises:
a search engine (370) coupled to the forwarding database memory (140) and
a plurality of input ports, the search engine configured to schedule and perform
accesses to the forwarding database memory (140) and to transfer forwarding
decisions to the plurality of input ports; and
a header processing unit (305) coupled to the search engine and having an
arbitrated interface coupled to the plurality of input ports,
wherein the header processing unit (305) is configured to receive a
packet header from an input port of the plurality of input ports and to extract
information from the packet header for constructing search keys for the
search engine to access the forwarding database memory (140) based upon
predetermined portions of the packet header, the predetermined portions of
the packet header being selected based upon a class of a plurality of classes
with which the packet header is associated,
wherein a first search key is a Layer 2, “L2”, search key for
retrieving an L2 entry from the forwarding database memory and a second
search key is a Layer 3, “L3”, search key for retrieving an L3 entry from the
forwarding database memory, and
wherein the header processing unit is implemented as a pipeline
whereby multiple packet headers are processed simultaneously by the
header processing unit, each stage in the pipeline being configured to
operate on a corresponding portion of the packet header to extract
information from the packet header; and
wherein the forwarding database memory (140) includes one or more associative
content addressable memories, “CAMs”, (610, 620) coupled to a random access memory,
“RAM” (630), the one or more CAMs having stored therein associative data and the RAM

having stored therein associated data corresponding to the associative data.

2. The subsystem of claim 1, wherein the header processing unit comprises

--- PAGE 2 ---
10

15

20

25

30

-39-

the following pipeline stages:

an address accumulation unit, coupled to the plurality of input ports and the
arbitrated interface, for accessing address information from the packet header;

an encapsulation processing unit, coupled to the plurality of input ports and the
arbitrated interface, for selecting a predetermined set of fields from the packet header to
determine a type of encapsulation;

a header class matching unit coupled to the plurality of input ports and the
arbitrated interface, the header class matching including comparison logic to determine a

header class based upon the type of encapsulation and a predetermined set of fields.

3. The subsystem of claim 1, wherein the plurality of input ports may each request for

a forwarding decision independently of the others.

4, The subsystem of claim 1, further including a command execution unit configured
to interface with a processor, the command execution unit further configured to access the

forwarding database memory on behalf of the processor.

5. The subsystem of claim 1, wherein the Layer 2 (L2) search key is of a first size and
the Layer 3 (L3) search key is of a second size, the second size being greater than the first

Size.

6. The subsystem of claim |

wherein the Layer 2 (L2) search key comprises one or more fields from a first
portion of the packet header and has a first length and the Layer 3 (L3) search key
comprises one or more fields from a second portion of the packet header and has a second

length.

7. The subsystem of claim 6, wherein the first length is smaller than the second

length.

8. The subsystem of claim 6, wherein the first portion of the packet header comprises
a media access control (MAC) header, and wherein the second portion of the packet header

comprises an Internet Protocol (IP) header.

--- PAGE 3 ---
10

15

-A0-

9. The subsystem of claim 6, wherein an address for accessing the RAM includes an
index provided by the one of more CAMs, and wherein the RAM contains both Layer 2
(L2) and Layer 3 (L3) forwarding information.

10. The subsystem of claim 6, wherein the pipeline logic includes:

an encapsulation block configured to determine the type of header encapsulation
that has been employed in a first packet header and to determine an indication of the start
of an L3 header based upon the type of header encapsulation; and

an L3 header class matching block coupled to the encapsulation block for receiving
the indication of the start of an L3 header, the L3 header class matching block configured
to determine a class of a plurality of L3 classes with which a second packet header is

associated based upon one or more fields in the L2 header and the L3 header.

11. | The subsystem of claim 1, wherein the search engine is configured to eliminate

Layer 2 (L2) destination address (DA) matching whenever an L2 learning cycle is needed.

12. |The subsystem of claim 1, wherein the first memory and the second memory are

accessible in parallel.