This is an appeal against the decision of the Examining Division to refuse European patent application 06250962.5. II. The Examining Division considered, inter alia, that the subject matter of claim 1 according to the main request was not an invention in the sense of Article 52(1) EPC. In particular, the Division did not consider the features "unit", "database" and "updater" in claim 1 as implying any technical means. III. In the statement setting out the grounds of appeal, dated 10 November 2011, the appellant requested that the decision to refuse the application be set aside and that a patent be granted on the basis of a main request, or, alternatively, on the basis of an auxiliary request, both filed with this statement. The main request was based on the refused auxiliary request, with some amendments. The auxiliary request was the same as the refused main request. The appellant also filed an auxiliary request for oral proceedings. IV. In a communication accompanying a summons to oral proceedings, the Board set out its preliminary observations, inter alia agreeing with the Examining Division (that claim 1 according to the main and auxiliary request did not define technical subject-matter which could be considered as an invention within the meaning of Article 52(1) EPC) and expressing doubts as to novelty and inventive step (Articles 54 and 56 EPC). V. In response to the Board's communication, the appellant filed, with letter dated 6 November 2015, new main and first to third auxiliary requests. The claims according to the third auxiliary request were the same as those according to the previous main request. VI. Oral proceedings before the Board took place on 8 December 2015. The appellant's final requests were that the appealed decision be set aside and that a patent be granted on the basis of the main request, or one of first to third auxiliary requests, all filed with letter dated 6 November 2015. VII. Claim 1 of the main request reads: "A communication system comprising: a compact contact details coordination unit, CCDCU, (40) to coordinate contact details between communication service providers (42a, 42b, 42c, 42d) and a business, the CCDCU (40) comprising: a communications nickname database (46) associating each of a multiplicity of businesses with its communications nickname (60); a determining unit to coordinate with physical, analog and digital communication service providers (42a, 42b, 42c, 42d) to determine if a unique communications nickname (60) is available for a business, wherein one of said communication service providers (42a, 42b, 42c, 42d) is a physical post office mail provider (42a) and wherein an available said unique communications nickname (60) is recorded in said communications nickname database (46); and an updater to update said router databases (52a, 52b, 52c, 52d) of said communications providers (42a, 42b, 42c, 42d) when said unique communications database (40) is changed, thereby enabling each of said communications providers (42a, 42b, 42d, 42d) to independently route by means of an associated router (54a, 54b, 54c, 54d) incoming communications from a costumer [sic] of said business to said business that are addressed in accordance with said unique communications nickname (60)." VIII. Claim 1 according to the first auxiliary request differs from the main request, in that the first feature reads (emphasis added): "a compact contact details coordination unit, CCDCU, (40) to coordinate compact contact details between communication service providers (42a, 42b, 42c, 42d) and a business, wherein the compact contact details comprise fewer communication access numbers (34) than full-length contact details (12),", and by the addition of the following feature at the end: "wherein each said router database (52a, 52b, 52c, 52d) comprises an address database for its associated said communications provider (42a, 42b, 42c, 42d) associating at least some of said multiplicity of businesses with their addresses as issued by said communications provider (42a, 42b, 42c, 42d)". IX. The second auxiliary request differs from the first auxiliary request in that the following definition of the "determining unit" is added to claim 1: ", wherein said determining unit comprises: a selector to select a temporary communications nickname; a confirmer to confirm with each said communications provider (42a, 42b, 42c, 42d) that said temporary communications nickname is not being used by any other business; and a mapper to map, if the output of said confirmer is true, said communications nickname (60) between said business and the communication access numbers assigned to said business by said communications providers (42a, 42b, 42c, 42d)" X. Claim 1 of the third auxiliary request reads: "A compact contact details coordination unit (40) comprising: a communications nickname database (46) associating each of a multiplicity of businesses with its communications nickname (60); a determining unit to determine if a unique communications nickname (60) is available for a business for a plurality of communications providers (42a, 42b, 42c, 42d), wherein an available said unique communications nickname (60) is recorded in said communications nickname database (46); and an updater to update said router databases (52a, 52b, 52c, 52d) of said communications providers (42a, 42b, 42c, 42d) when said unique communications database (40) is changed, thereby enabling each of  XI. The appellant's arguments can be summarized as follows: Claim 1 was directed to a communications system, which was inherently technical. The term "database" in claim 1 referred to an organised collection of data accessed through a database management system. Thus, it could not reasonably be interpreted as something existing in a person's mind. The invention aligned the different communication "topologies" of the communication service providers into one system, by using a common nickname for all. This was a solution to a technical problem. The use of a common nickname for a plurality of communication service providers reduced the amount of data to be transmitted. Since one and the same nickname was used for all the service providers, only one transmission, at one time, was required to update the router databases. Furthermore, having a short (or compact) nickname saved storage space and transmission bandwidth. The problem-solution approach required that the closest prior art be selected. This should be one piece of prior art, and not a combination of known concepts, such as a post office and a telephone system. Furthermore, documentary evidence was required to prove that something was, indeed, prior art. It was not sufficient to rely on the description of the background art in the application, because this could be internal prior art which was not available to the public at the priority date. Even starting from a system comprising postal services, telephony, and Internet, the skilled person would not have thought of using a common nickname for all services, because the systems were set up very differently. Each system had its own form of addressing, and that would tend to point the skilled person away from the invention rather than towards it. Therefore, some further hint would be needed, and no document provided one. Thus, the use of nicknames would not have been obvious.