The appeal lies against the decision of the examining division, with reasons dated 6 February 2012, to refuse European Patent application No. 08771408.5 for lack of inventive step over the document D1:  US 5 745 879 A. II. A notice of appeal was filed on 4 April 2012, the appeal fee being paid on the same day. A statement of grounds of appeal was received on 18 June 2012. The appellant re­quested that the decision under appeal be set aside and that a patent be granted based on amended claims accor­ding to a main request or one of three auxiliary requests as filed with the grounds of appeal and a description which remained to be adapted. III. The appellant claimed that the examining division had reached its decision by applying the "out-dated and in­appropriate contribution approach", was mixing up "the sta­tutory exclusions of Art.52(2) EPC with the require­ments of and tests applied in relation to Art.56 EPC", and missed "the point at which the threshold for paten­ta­bi­lity of computer-implemented inventions is passed", and argued that the confusion was caused by a "lack of clear guidance in the current decisions of the Board of Appeal" (see grounds of appeal, points 2.8-2.10). The appellant criticized the approach based on T 641/00 as incorrect, inconsistent, unworkable and ineffective (see grounds of appeal, point 6.20). It claimed that the Enlarged Board of Appeal itself in G 3/08 (section 10.13.2) had questioned the correctness of the approach based on T 641/00 and summa­rized in T 154/04 (see grounds of appeal, point 6.5) and that this approach, in G 3/08 referred to as an "elabo­rate system", should be reviewed and changed (see grounds of appeal, point 6.9). It criticized the fact that the notion of "technical" was undefined and hence open to subjective and arbitrary assessment, and that the En­larged Board of Appeal, by failing to define what it considered to be tech­nical had "propagated uncer­tain­ty" in this respect (reference was made to G 3/08, sec­tion 9.2). Moreover, the appellant argued that two de­ci­sions issued after G 3/08, namely T 1051/07 and T 1769/10, and in particu­lar point 4.2 of the reasons of the latter, represented a "new approach" which was in con­flict with the approach based on T 641/00 (see grounds of appeal, points 6.12-6.23 and 6.26). IV. The appellant also sub­mitted a number of what it called "Threshold Questions" Q1-Q16 relating to the assessment of the inventive step of mixed inventions - i.e. inven­tions containing both "tech­nical" and "non-technical" features - and requested that the board add­ress the issues raised in these ques­tions or otherwise refer them to the Enlarged Board of Appeal, in the form set out in grounds of appeal or sui­tably modified in order to improve clarity or to ensure a de­finite response. The ques­tions Q1-Q16 read as follows (emphases by the appellant): Q1.  In the context of computer-implemented inventions, in determining whether the totality of a claim is acceptable under Articles 54 and 56 EPC, is it not first necessary to: i)   identify what the claimed subject-matter purports to achieve rather than how something is achieved; ii)  to ask whether the 'what is achieved' brings about a practi iii) to check that the advantage does not seek to dictate or look to control inevitable human behaviour and, in the affirmative, to reject the claim; iv)  to confirm that the subject-matter of the claim: a) is not merely the automation of an existing process, such as a mental act or a method, scheme or rule for playing a game or doing business; and b) produces a technical effect in the real world irrespective of the nature of the data/content being processed or the application being run by the computer; and only then v)   to ask whether the features of the claim in totality are inventive over the prior art? vi)  If not, then what is the test and do any of points (i) to (v) have independent validity in such a test? Q2.  At what point does a commercial advantage take on a technical nature that in a corresponding claim element provides a technical contribution and/or further technical effect? Q3.  In following T1769/10, if "the objective technical problem to be solved may be formulated more specifically as how to implement technically the aim in the non-technical field, or, reworded, to provide a technical solution involving technical means how to achieve the aim in the non-technical field", does this mean that a technical contribu­tion (and more particularly an inventive step) arises when a machine is configured to operate in a different way or to effect any transformation of something, for example data, into something else, e.g. higher resolution data that can be applied to enhance a real world effect, as in the processing applied within T208/84 Vicom? If not, then what is the approach to assessing inventive step and/or the exclusion of features from consideration? Q4.  Is the issue of "technical contribution" or "techni­cal effect" the point where the skilled person is able unambiguously to derive the merest scin­tilla of an advantage that causes in practical rea­lity the technical implementation of the claimed arrangement to operate in a better, faster, more se­cure and/or more reliable fashion? How does this differ, if at all, from requiring a further techni­cal effect in T1173/97-IBM Computer Program Product? Q5.  Is it that a CII that automates a business process or a mental act not in fact looking to claim control of human behaviour and that, actually, any claim that dictates or controls inevitable human behaviour (through a claimed process or architecture) encompasses or defines "as such" excluded subject-matter? Is there a relationship between non-paten­table subject-matter and "human behavioural con­trol" and, if so, what is it? Q6.  Is it that a claim that seeks to protect a program for a computer or a scheme, rule or method of play­ing a game "as such" not actually lacking a practical application in the real world that would, if present, otherwise give rise to a tangible technical contribution, i.e. a computer program "as such" has no patentable merit because it only goes through a number of fixed steps to process content without making any use/application of the result in a practical and technical way? Q7.  Does a claim directed towards the implementation of an idea or function that brings about a surprising effect/advantage in practical reality that is a further effect in the real world always support patentable subject-matter, provided (of course) that the overall contribution (e.g. feature interaction) of a claim is non-obvious over the prior art? If not, why not? Q8.  If claimed CII-based subject-matter provides a choice to an individual, does such a claim not seek only to influence an effect in the real world having regard to external considerations and in the sense that influence is not equivalent to inevitable, unvarying control in which there is simply no choice and thus to be potentially patentable? If not, then why not? Q9.  Does the approach in Q1 not precede the formulation of a technical problem as an aim to be achieved in a non-technical field, as recommended in the approach in T0154/04-Duns Licensing? If not why not? Q10. Does the approach in Q3 not render the question of "how" something is achieved initially irrelevant with respect to the objective assessment of inventive step? If not, why not? Q11. Given that a commercial effect (such as maintenance of confidentiality or the process by which a random result for a game may be generated, such as in T0012/08-3.2.4) can have an underlying advantage that may not align with an easily identifiable technical problem (even if framed as an object to be achieved in a non-technical field), is such an underlying advantage sufficient for a claim that embodies an arrangement that produces that underlying advantage to be considered patentable, but at least worthy of consideration under the provisions of Art.54 EPC and Art.56 EPC? If not, then why not? In what circumstances could such a commercial effect support an allowable claim? Q12. Is it that a claim that seeks to protect a program for a computer or a scheme, rule or method of playing a game "as such" not actually lacking a practical application in the real world that would, if present, otherwise give rise to a tangible technical contribution, i.e. a computer program "as such" has no patentable merit because it only goes through a number of fixed steps to process content without making any use/application of the result in a practical and technical way? Q13. Does a claim directed towards the implementation of an idea or function that brings about a surprising effect/advantage in practical reality [i.e. a further effect] in the real world always support patentable subject-matter, provided (of course) that the overall contribution (e.g. feature interaction) of a claim is non-obvious over the prior art? If not, why not? Q14. If claimed CII-based subject-matter provides a choice to an individual, does such a claim not seek only to influence an effect in the real world having regard to external considerations [and in the sense that influence is not equivalent to inevitable, unvarying control in which there is simply no choice] and thus to be potentially patentable? If not, then why not? Q15. If none of the above is relevant, how should those elements of a claim that relate to excluded subject-matter be treated when assessing whether an invention is novel and inventive? Q16. How is it to be determined whether a feature in a claim is "technical" or "non-technical"? V. The appellant further requested oral pro­cee­dings and  also an interview with the rappor­­teur with a view to avoiding oral proceedings. More­over, it requested that the "appeal be treated on an expedited basis" be­cause it "raise[d] fundamental issues in the examina­tion of the Appellant's proprietary rights by the first in­stance of the EPO" and because it was "of commercial importance to the Appellant". VI. The board summoned the appellant to oral proceedings, thereby refusing the appellant's request for an inter­view with the rapporteur, and explained why it had not gran­ted the appellant's request for expedited pro­cessing. In the annex to the summons, the board also informed the appellant of its pre­liminary opinion. It expressed its tendency not to admit the main and 1st and 2nd auxiliary requests pursuant to Article 12(4) RPBA. In substance, the board raised a number of clarity ob­jec­­tions, Article 84 EPC 1973, ex­plained that it was minded to follow the established jurisprudence regarding the assessment of "mixed in­ven­tions" based on T 641/00 COMVIK and, on that premise, tended to find claim of the 3rd auxiliary request to lack an inventive step over D1, Article 56 EPC 1973. VII. In response to the summons, in a letter dated 3 Ju­ly  2015, the appellant withdrew the main request and 1st and 2nd auxiliary requests, making the 3rd auxiliary request its main request and filed new claims according to an auxiliary request. VIII. Oral proceedings were held on 4 August 2015, during which the appellant re­placed the main request with an amended set of claims 1-6 (marked "12.00 pm") and requested grant of a pa­tent based on these claims or, subsidiarily, based on only the system claims 5 and 6. The auxiliary request was withdrawn. IX. Claim 1 reads as follows: "A method for auditing software usage, comprising: at an authorization authority responsible for verifying software licenses: receiving both a serial number for software installed on a computing device and a unique device identifier for the device (61); determining whether the received serial number corresponds to one of recognized serial numbers; in response to recognizing the received serial number, calculating a copy count for the received serial number (62); in response to the copy count not exceeding a first upper limit of software copies, sending an unlimited unlock key to the device (64) to allow the computing device having a copy of the software to run the copy of the software with the serial number in an unrestricted manner; and in response to the copy count being greater than the first upper limit but not exceeding a second upper limit, sending a first limited unlock key to the device (66), wherein the first limited unlock key allows a copy of the software on the computing device and having the serial number to run for a first period of time or a defined number of executions before requiring re-authorization to continue use of the copy of the software; at the computing device, receiving one of the unlimited unlock key and the first limited unlock key and running the copy of the software in response to receipt of the unlimited unlock key or the first limited unlock key, wherein the first limited unlock key terminates running of the copy of the software after the first period of time or after the defined number of executions." Claim 5 reads as follows: "A system (60) for auditing software usage, comprising i) an authorization authority having: a receiver module adapted to receive a serial number for a software installed on a computing device and a unique device identifier for the device; a transmitter module; a processor module operatively coupled to the receiver and transmitter modules; and memory module operatively coupled to the processor module and comprising executable code for the processor module to; determine whether the received serial number corresponds to one of recognized serial numbers; in response to determination that the received serial number corresponds to one of the recognized serial numbers, calculate a copy count for the received serial number; in response to the copy count not exceeding a first upper limit of software copies, instruct the transmitter module to send an unlimited unlock key to the device, to allow the computing device having a copy of the software to run the copy of the software with the serial number in an unrestricted manner; and in response to the copy count being greater than the first upper limit but not exceeding a second upper limit, instruct the transmitter module to send a first limited unlock key to the device , wherein the first limited unlock key allows a copy of the software on the computing device and having the serial number to run for a first period of time or a defined number of executions before requiring re-authorization to continue use of the copy of the software; and ii) a multiplicity of computing devices of which at least some share a copy of the software that has the same serial number, wherein the computing devices that share the serial number are each arranged to run the copy of the software in an unrestricted manner in response to receipt of the unlimited unlock code or otherwise run the copy of the software in response to receipt of the first limited unlock code and wherein those computing devices running the copy of the software in response to the first limited unlock code are arranged to terminate running of the copy of the software after the first period or after the defined number of executions." X. At the end of the oral proceedings, the chairman announced the decision of the board.