The appeal is against the decision of the examining division, posted on 29 January 2010, to refuse European patent application No. 03777035.1 on the grounds of lack of inventive step (Article 56 EPC), having regard to the disclosure of D1: US 2002/0006803 or D2: EP 1 104 964. II. Notice of appeal was received on 29 March 2010 and the appeal fee was paid on the same day. The statement setting out the grounds of appeal was received on 26 May 2010. The appellant requested that the decision under appeal be set aside and that a patent be granted on the basis of a main request or any of the first to third auxiliary requests filed with the statement setting out the grounds of appeal. The claims of the main request were identical to the claims of the request on which the contested decision was based. Oral proceedings were requested should any of the requests not be allowed. III. A summons to oral proceedings scheduled for 26 March 2015 was issued on 5 December 2014. In an annex to this summons, the board gave its preliminary opinion on the appeal pursuant to Article 15(1) RPBA. Objections were raised under Article 56 EPC with respect to all the requests on file, having regard to the disclosure of D1 which the board considered as the closest prior art. Furthermore, the board raised Article 123(2) EPC objections against the second and third auxiliary requests. IV. With a letter dated 26 February 2015, the appellant filed a fourth auxiliary request and provided arguments in support of inventive step of this request. V. By letter of 24 March 2014 the appellant announced that it would not be attending the oral proceedings. VI. Oral proceedings were held as scheduled on 26 March 2015 in the absence of the appellant. After due deliberation on the basis of the pending requests and the written submissions, the decision of the board was announced at the end of the oral proceedings. VII. Claim 1 of the main request reads as follows: "A method of facilitating instant messaging (IM) over an electronic communication network, comprising: receiving a first message, from a first address that includes a first domain identified with a first instant message service provider (IMSPl), that is directed to a second address that includes a second domain different from the first domain, the second domain identified with a second instant message service provider (IMSP2); detecting, at the first instant message service provider, that the second domain is different from the first domain; and in response to detecting that the second domain is different from the first domain, mapping the first address to a substitute address that includes the second domain." Claim 1 of the first auxiliary request differs from claim 1 of the main request in that the wording "receiving a first message" has been amended to read "receiving a first instant message". Claim 1 of the second auxiliary request reads as follows: "A method of facilitating instant messaging (IM) over an electronic communication network, comprising; receiving a first message from a first address that includes a first domain identified with a first instant message service provider (IMSP1), wherein the first message is packed in accordance with a first standard associated with the first instant message service provider and is directed to a second address that includes a second domain different from the first domain, the second domain identified with a second instant message service provider (IMSP2); detecting, at the first instant message service provider, that the second domain is different from the first domain; unpacking the first message at the first instant message service provider; mapping the first address to a substitute address that includes the second domain; and repacking the first message at the first instant message service provider in accordance with a second standard associated with the second instant message service provider". Claim 1 of the third auxiliary request differs from claim 1 of the second auxiliary request in that "first standard" and "second standard" have been amended to read "first proprietary standard" and "second proprietary standard" respectively. The main and first, second and third auxiliary requests contain further independent claims directed to a corresponding program (claim 10) and system (claim 11). Claim 1 of the fourth auxiliary request reads as follows: "A method of facilitating instant messaging (IM) over an electronic communication network, the method being performed by a first instant message service provider (IMSP1) identified with a first domain and comprising: maintaining a plurality of pools of addresses, each pool including addresses having a different domain that is identified with a different instant message service provider, and each domain being different from the first domain; receiving a first message, from a first address that has the first domain identified with the first instant message service provider (IMSP1), which is directed to a second address that has a second domain different from the first domain, the second domain identified with a second instant message service provider (IMSP2); detecting that the second domain is different from the first domain; in response to detecting that the second domain is different from the first domain, accessing a pool of addresses, from the plurality of pools of addresses, which includes addresses having the second domain; reserving a substitute address having the second domain from the pool of addresses which includes addresses having the second domain; and mapping the first address that has the first domain to the substitute address that has the second domain." The fourth auxiliary request contains further independent claims directed to a corresponding program (claim 9) and system (claim 10).