TITLE:
nteractive personal interpretive device and system for retrieving information about a plurality of objects

TYPE:
World International Patent Organisation

ABSTRACT:
A system for providing interpretive information about objects or exhibits located in a facility employs a plurality of object identification devices, each disposed at an object or exhibit of interest, and each transmitting a signal identifying the object there located, and any number of personal interpretive devices that receive the signal and retrieve information from a storage device about the object identified by the received signal. The retrieved information includes text data, graphic data, and audio data, which is a recording of the text data. The text data is output on a display and the audio data is output by an audio output circuit in synchronism with the text display. The data is stored in a compressed format to increase the overall amount of information available. Information comparing an object with previous objects is retrieved when the object is one of predetermined set of objects, and others in the set having already been viewed. The information about the objects includes both general and detailed information, and the level of information retrieved is selectable by the visitor. When the visitor has retrieved detailed information for a predetermined number of exhibits, detailed information is retrieved directly for further exhibits. A timing function limits the amount of time the personal interpretive device can be used. The personal interpretive devices may be interconnected via signal transmission to allow interconnected devices to commonly view object information. The system regulates traffic in the facility by monitoring the positions of the personal interpretive device and redirecting them to less congested locations.

CLAIMS:
1. A system for retrieving and displaying object information for any of a plurality of distributed objects, each object associated with object information, the system comprising: a plurality of object identification devices, each disposed near at least one object, for transmitting an object identification signal identifying the object or objects near which the object identification device is disposed; a personal interpretive device, comprising: a receiver for receiving an object identification signal from any object identification device; a storage device for storing object information, including audio data, graphic data, and text data, for each of the plurality of objects, the object information for each object associated in the stored device with the object identification signal; a processor opera tively coupled to the receiver and the storage device, retrieving from the storage device the object information associated with the object identification signal received by the receiver; an audio output device operatively coupled to the processor for outputting audio data included in the retrieved object information; and, a display operatively coupled to the processor, for displaying text data or graphic data included in the retrieved object information.
2. The personal interpretive device of claim 1, wherein for each object the object information includes object comparison information comparing an object with selected other objects, further comprising: an object memory operatively coupled to the receiver for storing an object identifier of the object for which the processor retrieved object information; and an object set comparator operatively coupled to the object memory and the processor for comparing selected object identifiers stored in the object memory with a predetermined set of object identifiers identifying of a predetermined set of objects, wherein the processor retrieves from the storage device object comparison information where the selected object identifiers match the predetermined set of object identifiers, the object comparison information comparing the objects identified by the selected object identifiers stored in the object memory.
3. The system of claim 2, wherein the object information for each object includes levels of object information, including general object information and a detailed object information, and wherein the object memory further stores for each object for which object information is retrieved, an object identifier and the level of object information retrieved from the storage device for the object, the personal interpretive device of claim 2 further comprising: information selector operatively coupled to the processor and the display, for controlling the processor to retrieve from the storage device either detailed object information or general object information associated with an object identified by the object identification signal received by the receiver; and information counter operatively coupled to the object memory for determining a count of the object identifiers stored therein for which detailed object information is retrieved, wherein the information selector controls the processor to retrieve from the storage device detailed object information if the count equals or exceeds a predetermined count.
4. The personal interpretive device of claim 1, further comprising: a text marker operatively coupled to the processor for marking text data retrieved by the processor from the storage device; a marked text memory operatively coupled to the text marker for storing a signal representative of marked text data, the processor retrieving from the storage device marked text data according to signals stored in the marked text memory, and outputting to the display signals representative of the marked text data.
5. The system of claim 1, further comprising: a base signaling device for periodically transmitting a control signal to the receiver, the control signal for determining that the receiver is coupled to the base signaling device; and a timer operatively coupled to the receiver for initiating and continuing a timing function if the receiver is uncoupled from the base signaling device, the timing function determining an elapsed time beginning with the uncoupling of the receiver from the base signaling device; and a termination module operatively coupled to the timer and the receiver for terminating operation of the receiver where the elapsed time determined by the timer equals or exceeds a predetermined elapsed time.
6. The personal interpretive device of claim 5, wherein the termination module is further coupled to the display for terminating the display of text data.
7. The personal interpretive device of claim 5, further comprising: a warning device operatively coupled to the timer and the display, for controlling the display to display a warning when the timer determines that the elapsed time equals a predetermined warning elapsed time.
8. The system of claim 5, wherein the base signaling device transmits to the receiver a control signal representative of the predetermined elapsed time.
9. The personal interpretive device of claim 1, wherein the display comprises a contact-sensitive liquid crystal display panel, the contact-sensitive liquid crystal display panel providing an interface for controlling the processor.
10. The system of claim 1, wherein each object identification device transmits the object identification signal as an infra-red signal, or electromagnetic signal.
11. The system of claim 1, wherein each object has an object identifier and an object type, the system further comprising: an object type selector for selecting and storing an object type; an object tour selector, operatively coupled to the object type selector, for selecting a set of objects having a selected object type, and storing the object identifiers of the set of objects in an object memory; and, an object comparator operatively coupled to the receiver and the processor, for comparing the object identifier of an object identified by an object identification signal received from an object identification device with object identifiers stored in the object memory, wherein the processor retrieves from the storage device selected object information associated with the object identified by the object identification signal where the object identifier of the object is one of the object identifiers stored in the object memory.
12. The system of claim 11, wherein each object information includes an object review time, the personal interpretive device of claim 1 further comprising: a usage time selector for selecting and storing a usage time; and an object time accumulator operatively coupled to the usage time selector, for determining the selected object information such that a cumulative object review time is equal to or less than the usage time.
13. The system of claim 1, wherein each object information includes a plurality of user levels, each user level indicative of different user knowledge, such that for each user level there is associated object information, the personal interpretive device of claim 1 further comprising: user level selector coupled to the processor, for selecting and storing a signal representative of a user level, wherein the processor retrieves from the storage device object information associated with the selected user level.
14. The personal interpretive device of claim 1, further comprising: a synchronization module operatively coupled to the display and the audio output device for synchronizing the display of text data or graphic data on the display with the outputting of audio data by the audio output device.
15. The synchronization module of claim 14, further comprising: a timer, operatively coupled to the audio output device, to determine a time remaining for the outputting of audio data by the audio output device, the timer further coupled to the display to display the time remaining in conjunction with the outputting of the audio data.
16. The object identification device of claim 1, further comprising: at least one identification switch having a plurality of selectable positions for providing the object identification device with a identification number, the identification number transmitted by the object identification device as part of the object identification signal.
17. The system of claim 1, further comprising: a map generator operatively coupled to the display for displaying thereon a graphic representation of selected objects, the map generator operatively coupled to the storage device for retrieving from the storage device the graphic representation of selected objects.
18. The system of claim 17, wherein each object has an object identifier, the system further comprising: object selector for displaying on the display a selection of object identifiers, for selecting at least one object identifier, the object selector operatively coupled to the map generator, wherein the map generator retrieves from the storage device a graphic representation of the object having the selected object identifier. i
19. The system of claim 1 further comprising:
2 an object memory operatively coupled to the receiver for storing a
3 object identifier of the object for which the processor retrieved objec
4 information; and
5 an object set comparator operatively coupled to the object memor
6 and the processor for comparing selected object identifiers stored in th
7 object memory with a predetermined set of object identifiers identifying of
8 predetermined set of objects, wherein the processor retrieves from th
9 storage device and displays on the display object identifiers for additiona 0 objects for which object information has not been previously retrieve i where the selected object identifiers match the predetermined set of objec 2 identifiers.
i
20. The personal interpretive device of claim 2, wherein the objec
2 information for each object includes detailed object information including a
3 plurality of detailed object information items each having a theme, furthe
4 comprising:
5 theme selector operatively coupled to the processor and the display
6 for providing a selection of a theme corresponding to one of the detailed
7 object information items, and for controlling the processor to retrieve from
8 the storage device the detailed object information item having the selected
9 theme for an object identified by an object identification signal received by 0 the receiver.
1 21. The personal interpretive device of claim 2, wherein the storage device
2 stores an identification number assigned to the personal interpretive device, the
3 personal interpretive device further comprising:
4 a transmitter, operatively coupled to the storage device, for
5 transmitting the identification number to at least one other personal
6 interpretive device;
7 each personal interpretive device further receiving transmitted
8 identification numbers from selected other personal interpretive devices, and
9 storing the identification numbers in the storage device, wherein a first 0 personal interpretive device transmits selected identification numbers and 1 selected object identifiers associated with select object information, the 2 personal interpretive devices assigned to the selected identification numbers 3 retrieving the object information associated with the selected object 4 identifiers. i 22. A method for retrieving and displaying object information for any of a
2 plurality of distributed objects, each object associated with object information, the
3 method comprising the steps of:
4 transmitting an object identification signal from near each object to
5 identify the object;
6 storing object information, including audio data, graphic data, and
7 text data, for each of the plurality of objects, the object information for each
8 object being stored in association with the object identification signal
9 identifying the object;
10 receiving the transmitted object identification signal;
22 retrieving from storage the object information associated with the
22 received object identification signal;
23 outputting audio data included in the retrieved object information;
24 and,
25 displaying text data or graphic data included in the retrieved object 16 information.
1 23. The method of claim 22, further comprising the steps of:
2 storing an object identifier for each object for which object
3 information was retrieved; and comparing selected stored object identifiers with a predetermined set
5 of object identifiers identifying of a predetermined set of objects, wherein
6 object comparison information is retrieved from storage where the selected
7 stored object identifiers match the predetermined set of object identifiers,
8 the object comparison information comparing the objects identified by the
9 selected stored object identifiers.
i 24. The method of claim 23, wherein the object information for each object
2 includes levels of object information, including general object information and
3 detailed object information, the method further comprising the steps of:
4 providing a selection of a level of object information;
5 retrieving from storage the selected level of object information for an
6 object for which a object identification signal is received;
7 storing an object identifier and a level of object information retrieved
8 for the object; and,
9 determining a count of the stored object identifiers of objects for ιo which detailed object information has been retrieved, wherein detailed l i object information is retrieved from storage for another object if the count 12 of the stored object identifiers equals or exceeds a predetermined count. 25. The method of claim 22, further comprising the steps of: marking text data retrieved from storage; storing a signal representative of marked text data; retrieving marked text data from storage according to the store signals; and outputting signals representative of marked text data.
26. The method of claim 22, wherein there is provided a base signalin device and a receiver, the method further comprising the steps of: periodically transmitting a control signal from the base signalin device, the control signal for determining that the receiver is coupled to t base signaling device; initiating and continuing a timing function if the receiver uncoupled from the base signaling device, said timing functio determining an elapsed time from the uncoupling of the receiver from t base signaling device; and terminating operation of the receiver where the elapsed tim determined by the timers equals or exceeds a predetermined elapsed time.
27. The method of claim 26, further comprising the step of: displaying a warning when the elapsed time equals a predetermine warning elapsed time.
28. The method of claim 26, wherein the control signal is representative the predetermined elapsed time.
29. The method of claim 22, wherein each object has an object identifier an an object type, the method further comprising the steps of: selecting and storing an object type; selecting a set of objects having a selected object type, and storing th object identifiers of the set of objects; comparing the object identifier of an object for which an obje identification signal is received with stored object identifiers; and, retrieving from storage selected object information associated with a object where the object identifier of the object is one of the stored obje identifiers.
30. The method of claim 29, wherein each object information includes a object review time, the method further comprising the steps of: selecting and storing a usage time; and determining the selected object information having a cumulative object review time equal to or less than the usage time.
31. The method of claim 22, wherein each object information includes a plurality of user levels, each user level indicative of different user knowledge, such that for each user level there is associated object information, the method further comprising the steps of: providing a means for selecting a user level; selecting and storing a user level; and retrieving object information associated only with the selected user level.
32. The method of claim 22, further comprising the step of: synchronizing the outputting of the audio data with the displaying of the text data or graphic data.
33. The method of claim 32, further comprising the steps of: determining a time remaining for the outputting of audio data; and, displaying the time remaining in conjunction with the outputting of the audio data.
34. The method of claim 22, further comprising the steps of: selectively engaging a switch to activate the transmission of an object identification signal.
35. The method of claim 22, further comprising the steps of: selectively retrieving a stored graphic representation of selected objects; and displaying the graphic representation of the selected objects.
36. The method of claim 22, wherein each object has an object identifier, the method further comprising the steps of: displaying a plurality of object identifiers; providing a selection means for selecting at least one object identifier; retrieving a stored graphic representation of an object having the selected object identifier; and displaying the graphic representation of the object.
37. The method of claim 22, further comprising the step of: storing an object identifier for each object for which object information was retrieved; and comparing selected stored object identifiers with a predetermined set of object identifiers identifying of a predetermined set of objects, wherein object identifiers are retrieved and displayed for additional objects for which object information has not been previously retrieved where the selected object identifiers match the predetermined set of object identifiers.
38. The method of claim 22, wherein the object information for each object includes detailed object information including at plurality of detailed object information items each having a theme, the method further comprising the steps of: providing a selection means for selecting a theme corresponding to one of the detailed object information items; selecting a theme; and, retrieving the detailed object information item having the selected theme for an object identified by an object identification signal.
39. In a facility containing a plurality of objects, each object associated with object information, a computer implemented method of providing a game tour of selected objects in the facility, comprising the steps of: defining an objective for the game tour; displaying selected object information about a current object on a display, the object information retrieved from the memory in response to the selection of the current object; accepting an input signal; comparing the input signal with a predetermined signal identifying the current object to determine if the input signal correctly identifies the current object; determining if the objective is met; and if the objective is not met, returning to the step of displaying selected object information, otherwise providing a summary of objective, path and input signals.
40. The method of claim 39, wherein the step of displaying selected object information about a current object further comprises the substeps of: defining a path through the facility, the path including at least one object, the path defined by selecting an object stored in a memory; and determining a current object on the path. 41. A system for regulating a distribution of number of persons distributed throughout a facility having a plurality of areas, the system comprising: a plurality of location identification devices distributed throughout the facility, each location identification device including a transmitter for transmitting a location signal uniquely identifying the location of the location identification device;
a plurality of location tracking devices, one location tracking device provided to each person in the facility, each location tracking device including: a receiver for receiving control signals controlling the location tracking device, and for receiving location signals; a transmitter for transmitting an identification number for the tracking device and a location signal corresponding to location signal received from a location device disposed substantially near the location tracking device; a processor coupled to the transmitter and the receiver for processing the received signals; and, a display coupled to the processor for displaying information in response to the control signals; and
a base computer, including: a receiver, for receiving from the location tracking device the identification numbers and location signals; a storage device including an historical database data representing previous distributions of persons throughout the facility over selected time intervals, and further including target capacity values for each of the areas in the facility; a processor, operatively coupled to the storage device and the receiver, for receiving the identification numbers and the location signals, and counting a number of location tracking devices in each of the areas of the facility, the processor further comparing the number of location tracking devices in each area with the target capacity values for the area, the processor controlling the transmitter to send a control signal to the location tracking devices in each area in which the number of location tracking devices in the area is near the target capacity value for the area, the control signal directing the persons using the location tracking devices in the area towards other areas.
41. The system of claim 40, further comprising: at least one monitoring device in selected areas of the facility, each monitoring device including: a receiver for receiving the identification numbers and location signals from location tracking devices disposed near the monitoring device, and for receiving from base computer controls signals; and a transmitter for transmitting the identification numbers and location signals to the base computer, and for transmitting the control signals received from the base computer to the location tracking devices in the areas of the monitoring device.