The appeal lies from the decision of the examining division of 6 October 2010 to refuse European patent application No. 05781446 for lack of inventive step. II. The documents cited during the examination proceedings included the following: D1: WO-A-03 084631 D2: DE-C-39 20 999 III. With the statement of grounds of appeal, the applicant (appellant) requested that a patent be granted on the basis of a request filed with the examining division on 28 January 2008. IV. In its communication under Article 15(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the Boards of Appeal (RPBA), the Board expressed its preliminary non-binding opinion that this request was not admissible under Rule 12(4) RPBA, since it again contained the apparatus claims that had been deleted during examination proceedings. In addition, it was found that the reasoning of the examining division concerning the process claims was still applicable. V. By letter dated 23 March 2015, the appellant submitted a new main request as sole request. Claim 1 of the request is as follows: "1. Reactive or anti-solvent crystallization process, which comprises a step wherein a liquid comprising a solvent and two or more compounds dissolved therein, is subjected to crystallization conditions in the presence of Dean vortices, which Dean vortices result from said liquid flowing through a channel having at least one curvature, wherein said crystallization conditions comprises [sic] forming supersaturation conditions for said liquid by initiating a chemical reaction and/or addition of an anti-solvent." VI. Oral proceedings took place on 22 April 2015. VII. The arguments of the appellant can be summarised as follows: The present invention encompassed steps of both nucleation and subsequent crystallisation as explained on page 3, line 30 to page 4 line 1, while D2 only disclosed nucleation in the presence of Dean vortices. It was implicit that the precipitation step was part of the process according to claim 1. Cooling crystallisation was a much slower process than the types of crystallisation of the present invention. Crystallisation was influenced by many factors and predicting crystallisation processes was extremely difficult. Many crystallisation processes were known. The skilled person was not expected to consider that a process beneficial for one type of crystallisation was also beneficial for other types. Therefore, the skilled person would not consider D2 to be suitable for crystallisation processes other than cooling. During cooling crystallisation, nucleation occurred at the wall of the crystalliser and it was unlikely that the presence of Dean vortices was advantageous in such a process. In the present invention, both the formation of nuclei and crystals occurred in the bulk of the fluid. D1 was directed to a batch crystallisation process on a surface. The growth zone 32 shown in figure 1A of D1 should not be regarded as a spiral but only as a long tubing. There was no disclosure of Dean vortices in D1. D1 related to turbulent flow, which was not the case in the present invention. D1 could not be combined with D2. VIII. Requests The appellant requests that the decision of the examining division be set aside and that a patent be granted on the basis of the sole request on file, submitted with the letter of 23 March 2015.