--- PAGE 1 ---
Eur. pat. appln. No. 05781446.9
Our letter of 28 January 2008

10

15

20

25

EPO-DG1
29. 01. 2008

New Page | ©
Claims (MAIN Request)

1. Reactive or anti-solvent crystallization process, which comprises a
step wherein a liquid comprising a solvent and two or more compounds
dissolved therein, is subjected to crystallization conditions in the presence of
Dean vortices, which Dean vortices result from said liquid flowing through a
channel having at least one curvature.

2. Crystallization process, which comprises a step wherein a Hewe-feed_
comprising a solvent, material dissolved therein and heterogeneous particles, is
subjected to crystallization conditions in the presence of Dean vortices, which
Dean vortices result from said liquid flowing through a channel having at least
one curvature, wherein said ene-ermere-compoundsmaterial crystallizes on
solid surfaces, im-particularen-surfaces-efthe heteresencous particles present-
inthefeed, wherein said solid particles are from a different material than the
crystallizing material.

3. Process according to claim 2, wherein said surfaces of heterogeneous

particles are present in the feed.
34, Process according to any of the previous claims+er2, wherein said

channel is a tube in the shape of a spiral.

45. Process according to the previous claim-3, wherein said spiral
comprises 2 to 10 000 curves

65. Process according to any of the previous claims, wherein said channel
is a tube having a hydraulic diameter Dj, preferably a tube having circular
cross-section, wherein the Dean number, De, is less than 3000, preferably from
0.5 to 1500, wherein

De = Re - V(D;/D);

Re = p-u-D;/y (Reynolds number);

Dis the diameter of the curvature of the channel;

--- PAGE 2 ---
10

15

20

25

New page 2

p is the density of the liquid;

uv is the average liquid velocity through the channel; and

n is the viscosity of the liquid.

16 Process according to any of the previous claims, wherein said
crystallization conditions comprises forming supersaturation conditions for said

liquid.

| 78. Process according to claim 76, wherein said supersaturation is

created by initiating a chemical reaction, and/or addition of an anti-solvent
and/or by lowering the temperature.

98. Process according to any of the previous claims, wherein the process
should be maintained at a certain temperature or where heat is added or
removed from the crystallization process.

109. Process according to claim 89, wherein said heat is added or
removed, using a heat fluid that is in heat conducting contact with said
channel.

110. Process according to claim 910, wherein said heat fluid is a coolant
that flows through a channel or tube separate from said channel having at
least one curvature.

124. Process according to any of the previous claims, which is a
continuous process.

132. Process according to any of the previous claims, where the
morphology and/or polymorph of the produced crystals is controlled by
changing the flow conditions through said channel.

143. Apparatus for carrying out the crystallization process of claim 1
and/or 2, comprising a spirally wound tube for holding a liquid from which a
component should be crystallized, further comprising a second tube for holding

a coolant, which second tube is in heat exchanging contact with said first tube.

--- PAGE 3 ---
New page 8

| 154. Apparatus according to claim 143, which is constructed from a
plastic material, preferably a polymer selected from PVC, polyolefin, PTFE,
and combinations thereof.

| 156. Apparatus according to claim 148, which is construed from a material
selected from metals, in particular aluminum, stainless steel; ceramics; glass;

and combinations thereof.