Title: Method of inspecting a honeycomb structural body for purifying exhaust gases and apparatus used in the method

Abstract: A method of inspecting an alternately sealed honeycomb structural body is provided which can quickly, efficiently and accurately inspect presence of defects of the honeycomb structural body. The method comprises, flowing particulates in axial direction of the throughholes from one end surface to the other end surface of the honeycomb structural body, catching the particulates on a gas-permeable screen intimately mounted on the other end surface to form a figure of the particulates, and checking the figure to inspect for defects at internal partition walls and sealing portions of the honeycomb structural body.

Type: US Patent

Claims: 

What is claimed is:
1. A method of inspecting a honeycomb structural body for purifying exhaust gases having througholes which are alternately sealed at alternate end surfaces of the honeycomb body, said method comprising:
axially flowing particulates through througholes of a honeycomb structural body from one end surface thereof to the other end surface thereof, said througholes being alternately sealed at alternate end surfaces of said honeycomb body from one end surface thereof to the other end surface thereof;
collecting particulates passing through said honeycomb structural body on a gas permeable screen intimately mounted at an end surface of the honeycomb structural body, said particulates forming a figure on the gas permeable screen; and
inspecting said figure visually or by automated means for presence of defects at internal partition walls and sealing portions of the honeycomb body.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein said througholes are alternately sealed in a checkered pattern.
3. The method of claim 1, wherein said througholes are alternately sealed to form alternately sealed rows of said througholes.
4. The method of claim 1, wherein said particulates are black soot or wheat flour.
5. An apparatus for inspecting a honeycomb structural body, comprising:
a honeycomb structural body for purifying exhaust gases having a plurality of througholes which are alternately sealed at alternating end surfaces of said honeycomb structural body;
a first supporting member which gas-tightly supports a peripheral portion of a first end surface of said honeycomb structural body;
a gas generator for production of a particulate-containing gas;
an inlet pipe connecting said gas generator to said supporting member to introduce said particulate-containing gas to said one end surface of said honeycomb structural body;
a second supporting member which gas-tightly supports a peripheral portion of a second end surface of said honeycomb structural body;
a gas permeable screen for collecting particulates passing through said honeycomb structural body mounted between said second supporting member and said peripheral portion of second end surface of said honeycomb structural body;
an outlet pipe connected to said second supporting member; and
means for removing said honeycomb structural body and said gas permeable screen from said apparatus.
6. The apparatus of claim 5 further comprising a restraining screen disposed between said gas permeable screen and said outlet pipe.